contents/handbook/design/art-requests.md, before:

---
title: Art and branding request
sidebar: Handbook
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: false
---

Lottie, PostHog's in-house graphic designer, handles all requests for branding and artwork. Lottie can help you with things like:

- Custom visuals for paid-ad campaigns
- Blog and social media art work
- Landing page concepts
- New themed hedgehogs
- Custom CTAs and banners
- Branded merch 
- Animated UI elements

You can see what Lottie is working on via the [Art & Brand Planning project board](https://github.com/orgs/PostHog/projects/65/views/2).

Lottie gets lots of requests for work. To help plan and prioritize this work, please follow this process for requesting work:

- Create a [new art and branding request issue](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/issues/new/choose) on the posthog.com repo using the issue template
- Add your issue to the `Art & Brand Planning` project

Lottie will then confirm if/when she can complete the work, and clarify the requirements where necessary.

Your issue should include:

- A brief description of what you need
- A deadline (be specific where possible)
- Priority (e.g. is it urgent & important, or nice to have?)
- Dimensions / file type requirements where necessary
- Inspiration or examples of what you want (if you have them)

Please note: The more notice you give, the more likely she can hit your desired deadline.

Commit message:

Update art-requests.md (#6706)
Added in small bit on the new and improved hedgehog library now available in Figma

contents/handbook/design/art-requests.md, after:

---
title: Art and branding request
sidebar: Handbook
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: false
---

Lottie, PostHog's in-house graphic designer, handles all requests for branding and artwork. Lottie can help you with things like:

- Custom visuals for paid-ad campaigns
- Blog and social media art work
- Landing page concepts
- New themed hedgehogs
- Custom CTAs and banners
- Branded merch 
- Animated UI elements

You can see what Lottie is working on via the [Art & Brand Planning project board](https://github.com/orgs/PostHog/projects/65/views/2).

To search through our current hedgehog assets library go to the [Hoggies file](https://www.figma.com/file/I0VKEEjbkKUDSVzFus2Lpu/Hoggies?type=design&node-id=0%3A1&mode=design&t=kquJnyBOtmHTYUvv-1) in Figma and search for anything you need, all artwork has been tagged with various actions/emotions to make for easier location of your perfect hedgehog. If you can't find what you are looking for, request a new one!

Lottie gets lots of requests for work. To help plan and prioritize this work, please follow this process for requesting work:

- Create a [new art and branding request issue](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/issues/new/choose) on the posthog.com repo using the issue template
- Add your issue to the `Art & Brand Planning` project

Lottie will then confirm if/when she can complete the work, and clarify the requirements where necessary.

Your issue should include:

- A brief description of what you need
- A deadline (be specific where possible)
- Priority (e.g. is it urgent & important, or nice to have?)
- Dimensions / file type requirements where necessary
- Inspiration or examples of what you want (if you have them)

Please note: The more notice you give, the more likely she can hit your desired deadline.
