contents/docs/feature-flags/early-access-feature-management.mdx, before:

---
title: Early access feature management
---

> **Note:** Early access management is only available in the [JavaScript web SDK](/docs/libraries/js).

Early access feature management enables your users to opt in (and out) of betas and other in-progress features. 

This is useful if you want to:
- Run a beta program without building a custom solution
- Provide access to features that are not yet ready for general release
- Allow users to control their own product experience

## How it works

Early access features can be created and edited from the [Early Access Management](https://app.posthog.com/early_access_features) tab in PostHog.

Features are powered by feature flags. Flags are automatically created when a feature is created (based on the name of the feature), or you can link an existing feature flag to a feature. Each feature can also contain a description and documentation link to help users understand what the feature is for.

![Create feature flags](../../images/features/feature-flags/create-feature-release.png)

Once created, you can opt users in or out manually on the feature detail screen by searching for them in PostHog. You can also implement a public opt-in flow which we detail below.

> **Important:** Early access feature opt-in is an *overriding condition*. This means that a user opt-in or opt-out overrides any existing release condition on the feature flag. Only when a user has not explicitly selected to opt in or out will the release conditions on the feature flag be used to determine feature flag availability.

## Creating a public opt-in

> You can find a full walkthrough of building an app with early access feature management in our [How to set up a public beta program using early access management](/tutorials/public-beta-program) tutorial.

### Option 1: Site app

We've prebuilt a site app that adds an early access feature modal to your site. 

![Create feature flags](../../images/features/feature-flags/early-access-feature-demo.png)

To use it:

1. Ensure you set `opt_in_site_apps: true` in your PostHog [initialization configuration](/docs/libraries/js#config).

2. Search for [Early Access Features App](https://app.posthog.com/project/apps?name=Early%20Access) in the [Browse Apps](https://app.posthog.com/project/apps) tab.

3. Enable it by clicking the blue gear, setting an HTML attribute selector like `data-attr`, `#id`, or `.class` (or enabling "Show features button on the page"), enabling the toggle and pressing save.

![Setting up site app](../../images/features/feature-flags/site-app.png)

4. If you did set an HTML attribute selector, add a component with that selector into your app. For example, if you set your selector to `#beta-button`, you need to add an element like `<button id="beta-button">Public Betas</button>`.

Once set up, early access features appear on this panel for users to opt in or out of.

### Option 2: Custom implementation

You can fully customize your early access management experience using `getEarlyAccessFeatures` and `updateEarlyAccessFeatureEnrollment` from PostHog's [JavaScript Web library](/docs/libraries/js#early-access-feature-management).

- `getEarlyAccessFeatures` is called with a callback function that receives a list of early access features with their flag key, name, description, and documentation link. You can use this to build a UI for users to opt in or out of features.

```react
const posthog = usePostHog()
const activeFlags = useActiveFeatureFlags()

const [activeBetas, setActiveBetas] = useState([])
const [inactiveBetas, setInactiveBetas] = useState([])

useEffect(() => {
  posthog.getEarlyAccessFeatures((features) => {

    if (!activeFlags || activeFlags.length === 0) {
      setInactiveBetas(features)
      return
    }

    const activeBetas = features.filter(
			beta => activeFlags.includes(beta.flagKey)
		);
    const inactiveBetas = features.filter(
			beta => !activeFlags.includes(beta.flagKey)
		);
    setActiveBetas(activeBetas)
    setInactiveBetas(inactiveBetas)
  }, true)
}, [activeFlags])
```

- `updateEarlyAccessFeatureEnrollment` is called with a feature flag key and a boolean value to opt in or out of the feature. This updates the user's opt-in status for the feature.

```react
const toggleBeta = (betaKey) => {
  if (activeBetas.some(
    beta => beta.flagKey === betaKey
  )) {
    posthog.updateEarlyAccessFeatureEnrollment(
      betaKey, 
      false
    )
    setActiveBetas(
      prevActiveBetas => prevActiveBetas.filter(
        item => item.flagKey !== betaKey
      )
    );
    return
  }

  posthog.updateEarlyAccessFeatureEnrollment(
    betaKey,
    true
  )
  setInactiveBetas(
    prevInactiveBetas => prevInactiveBetas.filter(
      item => item.flagKey !== betaKey
    )
  );
}
```

Other useful functions for custom implementations are `isFeatureEnabled()` and `useActiveFeatureFlags()` (React only). These help you differentiate users who have opted into early access features from those who have not.

For a sample implementation, see the [public beta tutorial here](/tutorials/public-beta-program#creating-a-beta-opt-in-page) or [the site app code here](https://github.com/PostHog/early-access-features-app/blob/main/site.ts).

Commit message:

Clarify docs for early access

contents/docs/feature-flags/early-access-feature-management.mdx, after:

---
title: Early access feature management
---

> **Note:** Early access management is only available in the [JavaScript web SDK](/docs/libraries/js).

Early access feature management enables your users to opt in (and out) of betas and other in-progress features. 

This is useful if you want to:
- Run a beta program without building a custom solution
- Provide access to features that are not yet ready for general release
- Allow users to control their own product experience

## How it works

Early access features can be created and edited from the [Early Access Management](https://app.posthog.com/early_access_features) tab in PostHog.

Features are powered by feature flags. Flags are automatically created when a feature is created (based on the name of the feature), or you can link an existing feature flag to a feature. Each feature can also contain a description and documentation link to help users understand what the feature is for.

![Create feature flags](../../images/features/feature-flags/create-feature-release.png)

Once created, you can opt users in or out manually on the feature detail screen by searching for them in PostHog. You can also implement a public opt-in flow which we detail below.

> **Important:** Early access feature opt-in is an *overriding condition*. This means that a user opt-in or opt-out overrides any existing release condition on the feature flag. Only when a user has not explicitly selected to opt in or out will the release conditions on the feature flag be used to determine feature flag availability.

## Creating a public opt-in

> You can find a full walkthrough of building an app with early access feature management in our [How to set up a public beta program using early access management](/tutorials/public-beta-program) tutorial.

### Option 1: Site app

We've prebuilt a site app that adds an early access feature modal to your site. 

![Create feature flags](../../images/features/feature-flags/early-access-feature-demo.png)

To use it:

1. Ensure you set `opt_in_site_apps: true` in your PostHog [initialization configuration](/docs/libraries/js#config).

2. Search for [Early Access Features App](https://app.posthog.com/project/apps?name=Early%20Access) in the [Browse Apps](https://app.posthog.com/project/apps) tab.

3. Enable it by clicking the blue gear, setting an HTML attribute selector like `data-attr`, `#id`, or `.class` (or enabling "Show features button on the page"), enabling the toggle and pressing save.

![Setting up site app](../../images/features/feature-flags/site-app.png)

4. If you did set an HTML attribute selector, add a component with that selector into your app. For example, if you set your selector to `#beta-button`, you need to add an element like `<button id="beta-button">Public Betas</button>`.

Once set up, early access features appear on this panel for users to opt in or out of.

### Option 2: Custom implementation

You can fully customize your early access management experience using `getEarlyAccessFeatures` and `updateEarlyAccessFeatureEnrollment` from PostHog's [JavaScript Web library](/docs/libraries/js#early-access-feature-management).

- `getEarlyAccessFeatures` is called with a callback function that receives a list of early access features with their flag key, name, description, and documentation link. You can use this to build a UI for users to opt in or out of features.

> *Note:* The list of available rarly access features is cached per browser load, so if you have a browser open and create a new one, you wouldn't see it in your list until you refresh. However, if you want the latest early access features always available, `getEarlyAccessFeatures` takes a second force_reload parameter which makes a network request to get the list. You generally don't want this because it can slow down opening the features list, and the cached value persists only until browser reload, so it refreshes automatically on browser refresh.


```react
const posthog = usePostHog()
const activeFlags = useActiveFeatureFlags()

const [activeBetas, setActiveBetas] = useState([])
const [inactiveBetas, setInactiveBetas] = useState([])

useEffect(() => {
  posthog.getEarlyAccessFeatures((features) => {

    if (!activeFlags || activeFlags.length === 0) {
      setInactiveBetas(features)
      return
    }

    const activeBetas = features.filter(
			beta => activeFlags.includes(beta.flagKey)
		);
    const inactiveBetas = features.filter(
			beta => !activeFlags.includes(beta.flagKey)
		);
    setActiveBetas(activeBetas)
    setInactiveBetas(inactiveBetas)
  }, true)
}, [activeFlags])
```

- `updateEarlyAccessFeatureEnrollment` is called with a feature flag key and a boolean value to opt in or out of the feature. This updates the user's opt-in status for the feature.

```react
const toggleBeta = (betaKey) => {
  if (activeBetas.some(
    beta => beta.flagKey === betaKey
  )) {
    posthog.updateEarlyAccessFeatureEnrollment(
      betaKey, 
      false
    )
    setActiveBetas(
      prevActiveBetas => prevActiveBetas.filter(
        item => item.flagKey !== betaKey
      )
    );
    return
  }

  posthog.updateEarlyAccessFeatureEnrollment(
    betaKey,
    true
  )
  setInactiveBetas(
    prevInactiveBetas => prevInactiveBetas.filter(
      item => item.flagKey !== betaKey
    )
  );
}
```

Other useful functions for custom implementations are `isFeatureEnabled()` and `useActiveFeatureFlags()` (React only). These help you differentiate users who have opted into early access features from those who have not.

For a sample implementation, see the [public beta tutorial here](/tutorials/public-beta-program#creating-a-beta-opt-in-page) or [the site app code here](https://github.com/PostHog/early-access-features-app/blob/main/site.ts).
