contents/docs/feature-flags/tutorials.mdx, before:

---
title: Tutorials and guides
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

## Tutorials

- [Targeting feature flags on groups, pages, machines, and more](/tutorials/group-page-machine-flags)
- [How to set up one-time feature flags](/tutorials/one-time-feature-flags)																								
- [How to do a canary release with feature flags in PostHog](/tutorials/canary-release)
- [How to set up a public beta program using early access management](/tutorials/public-beta-program)

## Framework guides 

- [How to set up Angular feature flags](/tutorials/angular-analytics#setting-up-and-using-feature-flags)
- [How to set up Astro feature flags](/tutorials/astro-analytics#setting-up-server-side-feature-flags)
- [How to set up Bubble feature flags](/tutorials/bubble-analytics#customizing-components-with-feature-flags)
- [How to set up Django feature flags](/tutorials/django-analytics#4-setting-up-more-posthog-features)
- [How to set up Next.js feature flags](/tutorials/nextjs-analytics#setting-up-and-using-feature-flags)
- [How to set up Next.js app router feature flags](/tutorials/nextjs-app-directory-analytics#setting-up-feature-flags)
- [How to set up Node.js (Express) feature flags](/tutorials/node-express-analytics#setting-up-feature-flags)
- [How to set up Nuxt feature flags](/tutorials/nuxt-feature-flags)
- [How to set up React Native (Expo) feature flags](/tutorials/react-native-analytics#feature-flags)
- [How to set up Remix feature flags](/tutorials/remix-analytics#using-server-side-feature-flags)
- [How to set up Ruby on Rails feature flags](/tutorials/ruby-on-rails-analytics#using-feature-flags)
- [How to set up Svelte feature flags](/tutorials/svelte-analytics#using-feature-flags)
- [How to set up Vue feature flags](/tutorials/vue-feature-flags)

## Posts

- [Why use feature flags? Benefits, types and use cases, explained](/blog/feature-flag-benefits-use-cases)
- [Feature flag best practices and tips (with examples)](/blog/feature-flag-best-practices)
- [What you can learn from how GitHub and GitLab use feature flags](/blog/github-gitlab-feature-flags)
- [How to safely test in production (and why you should)](/product-engineers/testing-in-production)

Commit message:

Overhaul and update tutorials pages for each product (#7815)
* initial

* Tutorials improvement

* Update contents/docs/experiments/tutorials.mdx

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Ian Vanagas <34755028+ivanagas@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Ian Vanagas <34755028+ivanagas@users.noreply.github.com>

contents/docs/feature-flags/tutorials.mdx, after:

---
title: Tutorials and guides
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---
Got a question which isn't answered below? Head to [the community forum](/questions) to let us know!

- [How to target flags with groups, pages, machines, and more](/tutorials/group-page-machine-flags)
- [How to set up one-time feature flags](/tutorials/one-time-feature-flags)	
- [How to do a canary release with feature flags in PostHog](/tutorials/canary-release)
- [How to set up a public beta program using early access management](/tutorials/public-beta-program)
- [How to collect feedback from beta users](/tutorials/beta-feedback)
- [How to do a phased rollout](/tutorials/phased-rollout)
- [How to set up a location-based site banner](/tutorials/location-based-banner)
- [How to add popups to your React app with feature flags](/tutorials/react-popups)
- [How to track high-volume APIs](/tutorials/track-high-volume-apis)
- [How to evaluate and update feature flags with the PostHog API](/tutorials/api-feature-flags)
- [How to test frontend feature flags with React, Jest, and PostHog](/tutorials/test-frontend-feature-flags)

### How to run experiments with feature flags
> For more experiment tutorials, check [the A/B testing docs](/docs/experiments/tutorials)!

- [How to do A/A testing](/tutorials/aa-testing)
- [How to do holdout testing](/tutorials/holdout-testing)
- [How to do redirect testing](/tutorials/redirect-testing)
- [How to do A/B/n testing](/tutorials/abn-testing)
- [How to set up Python A/B testing](/tutorials/python-ab-testing)

## Framework guides 
- [How to set up Angular feature flags](/tutorials/angular-analytics#setting-up-and-using-feature-flags)
- [How to set up Astro feature flags](/tutorials/astro-analytics#setting-up-server-side-feature-flags)
- [How to set up Bubble feature flags](/tutorials/bubble-analytics#customizing-components-with-feature-flags)
- [How to set up Django feature flags](/tutorials/django-analytics#4-setting-up-more-posthog-features)
- [How to set up Next.js feature flags](/tutorials/nextjs-analytics#setting-up-and-using-feature-flags)
- [How to set up Next.js app router feature flags](/tutorials/nextjs-app-directory-analytics#setting-up-feature-flags)
- [How to set up Node.js (Express) feature flags](/tutorials/node-express-analytics#setting-up-feature-flags)
- [How to set up Nuxt feature flags](/tutorials/nuxt-feature-flags)
- [How to set up React Native (Expo) feature flags](/tutorials/react-native-analytics#feature-flags)
- [How to set up Remix feature flags](/tutorials/remix-analytics#using-server-side-feature-flags)
- [How to set up Ruby on Rails feature flags](/tutorials/ruby-on-rails-analytics#using-feature-flags)
- [How to set up Svelte feature flags](/tutorials/svelte-analytics#using-feature-flags)
- [How to set up Vue feature flags](/tutorials/vue-feature-flags)
- [How to set up Go feature flags](/tutorials/go-feature-flags)
- [How to set up Python feature flags in Flask](/tutorials/python-feature-flags)
- [How to use Next.js middleware to bootstrap feature flags](/tutorials/nextjs-bootstrap-flags)
- [How to bootstrap feature flags in React and Express](/tutorials/bootstrap-feature-flags-react)

## Best practices for feature flags
Find out how other teams, like [carVertical](/customers/carvertical) and [Speakeasy](/customers/speakeasy), use feature flags in [our customer stories](/customers) - or check out our feature flag best practices below...

- [Feature flag types, benefits, and use cases](/blog/feature-flag-benefits-use-cases)
- [Feature flag best practices and tips (with examples)](/blog/feature-flag-best-practices)
- [How GitHub and GitLab use feature flags](/blog/github-gitlab-feature-flags)
- [How we do trunk-based development (and why you should too)](/product-engineers/trunk-based-development)
- [How to safely test in production (and why you should)](/product-engineers/testing-in-production)
