contents/docs/api/index.mdx, before:

---
title: API
sidebarTitle: Overview
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

PostHog has a powerful API that enables you to capture, evaluate, create, update, and delete nearly all of your information in PostHog. You can use it to [pull information into your app](/tutorials/customer-facing-analytics), update metadata programmatically, [capture events from any language that can send HTTP requests](/tutorials/api-capture-events), and more.

The API is available for all users and instances. It contains two types of endpoints:

1. **[Public POST-only endpoints](/docs/api/post-only-endpoints)** used for capturing events, batching events, updating person or group information, and evaluating feature flags. These don't require authentication, but use [your project API key](https://app.posthog.com/project/settings) to handle the request.

2. **Private `GET`, `POST`, `PATCH`, `DELETE` endpoints** used for creating, updating, or deleting nearly all other non-event data in PostHog. They give the same access as if you were logged into your PostHog instance, but require authentication with your personal API key. 

> You must make API requests to the correct domain. These are `https://app.posthog.com` for US Cloud, `https://eu.posthog.com` for EU Cloud, and your self-hosted domain for self-hosted instances. Confirm yours by checking your URL from your PostHog instance.

## Private endpoint authentication

import InstallAPI from '../integrate/_snippets/install-api.mdx'

<InstallAPI />

## Rate limiting

Private `GET`, `POST`, `PATCH`, `DELETE` endpoints are rate limited. Public POST-only endpoints are **not** rate limited. A rule of thumb for whether rate limits apply is if the personal API key is used for authentication. 

There are separate limits for different kinds of resources.

- For all analytics endpoints (such as calculating insights, retrieving persons, or retrieving session recordings), the rate limits are `240/minute` and `1200/hour`.

- The [HogQL query](/docs/hogql#api-access) endpoint (`/api/project/:id/query`) has a rate limit of `120/hour`.

- For the rest of the create, read, update, and delete endpoints, the rate limits are `480/minute` and `4800/hour`.

- For Public POST-only endpoints like event capture (`/capture`) and feature flag evaluation (`/decide`), there are no rate limits.

These limits apply to **the entire team** (i.e. all users within your PostHog organization). For example, if a script requesting feature flag metadata hits the rate limit, and another user, using a different personal API key, makes a single request to the persons API, this gets rate limited as well.

For large or regular exports of events, use [batch exports](/docs/cdp/batch-exports).

> **Want to use the PostHog API beyond these limits?** Email us at [customers@posthog.com](to:customers@posthog.com).

## Pagination

Requests are paginated if the results are higher than the limit, usually 100 (sometimes 500 or 1000). Pagination happens in the following format:

```json
{
  "next": "https://app.posthog.com/api/person/?cursor=cD0yMjgxOTA2",
  "previous": null,
  "results": [
    // ...
  ]
}
```

You can then just call the `"next"` URL to get the next set of results.

## Tips

- The [`/users/@me/` endpoint](/docs/api/user) gives you useful information about the current user.

- The `/api/event_definition/` and `/api/property_definition` endpoints provide the possible event names and properties you can use throughout the rest of the API.

- The maximum size of a POST request body is governed by `settings.DATA_UPLOAD_MAX_MEMORY_SIZE`, and is 20MB by default.

- By default, the PostHog API returns results from the last project you visited in the UI. To override this behavior, you can pass in your project API key as a query parameter in the request like `api/event/?token=my_project_api_key`.

- You can download the OpenAPI spec (aka API schema) at [https://app.posthog.com/api/schema/](https://app.posthog.com/api/schema/). (Be sure to be logged in to app.posthog.com.)

- You can view the API schema with Swagger UI at [https://app.posthog.com/api/schema/swagger-ui/](https://app.posthog.com/api/schema/swagger-ui/) (Be sure to be logged in to app.posthog.com.)

Commit message:

Add feature flag rate limits

contents/docs/api/index.mdx, after:

---
title: API
sidebarTitle: Overview
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

PostHog has a powerful API that enables you to capture, evaluate, create, update, and delete nearly all of your information in PostHog. You can use it to [pull information into your app](/tutorials/customer-facing-analytics), update metadata programmatically, [capture events from any language that can send HTTP requests](/tutorials/api-capture-events), and more.

The API is available for all users and instances. It contains two types of endpoints:

1. **[Public POST-only endpoints](/docs/api/post-only-endpoints)** used for capturing events, batching events, updating person or group information, and evaluating feature flags. These don't require authentication, but use [your project API key](https://app.posthog.com/project/settings) to handle the request.

2. **Private `GET`, `POST`, `PATCH`, `DELETE` endpoints** used for creating, updating, or deleting nearly all other non-event data in PostHog. They give the same access as if you were logged into your PostHog instance, but require authentication with your personal API key. 

> You must make API requests to the correct domain. These are `https://app.posthog.com` for US Cloud, `https://eu.posthog.com` for EU Cloud, and your self-hosted domain for self-hosted instances. Confirm yours by checking your URL from your PostHog instance.

## Private endpoint authentication

import InstallAPI from '../integrate/_snippets/install-api.mdx'

<InstallAPI />

## Rate limiting

Private `GET`, `POST`, `PATCH`, `DELETE` endpoints are rate limited. Public POST-only endpoints are **not** rate limited. A rule of thumb for whether rate limits apply is if the personal API key is used for authentication. 

There are separate limits for different kinds of resources.

- For all analytics endpoints (such as calculating insights, retrieving persons, or retrieving session recordings), the rate limits are `240/minute` and `1200/hour`.

- The [HogQL query](/docs/hogql#api-access) endpoint (`/api/project/:id/query`) has a rate limit of `120/hour`.

- For the rest of the create, read, update, and delete endpoints, except feature flag local evaluation, the rate limits are `480/minute` and `4800/hour`.

- For feature flag local evaluation (which is enabled in SDKs when you input a personal API key, the rate limit is `600/minute`

- For Public POST-only endpoints like event capture (`/capture`) and feature flag evaluation (`/decide`), there are no rate limits.

These limits apply to **the entire team** (i.e. all users within your PostHog organization). For example, if a script requesting feature flag metadata hits the rate limit, and another user, using a different personal API key, makes a single request to the persons API, this gets rate limited as well.

For large or regular exports of events, use [batch exports](/docs/cdp/batch-exports).

> **Want to use the PostHog API beyond these limits?** Email us at [customers@posthog.com](to:customers@posthog.com).

## Pagination

Requests are paginated if the results are higher than the limit, usually 100 (sometimes 500 or 1000). Pagination happens in the following format:

```json
{
  "next": "https://app.posthog.com/api/person/?cursor=cD0yMjgxOTA2",
  "previous": null,
  "results": [
    // ...
  ]
}
```

You can then just call the `"next"` URL to get the next set of results.

## Tips

- The [`/users/@me/` endpoint](/docs/api/user) gives you useful information about the current user.

- The `/api/event_definition/` and `/api/property_definition` endpoints provide the possible event names and properties you can use throughout the rest of the API.

- The maximum size of a POST request body is governed by `settings.DATA_UPLOAD_MAX_MEMORY_SIZE`, and is 20MB by default.

- By default, the PostHog API returns results from the last project you visited in the UI. To override this behavior, you can pass in your project API key as a query parameter in the request like `api/event/?token=my_project_api_key`.

- You can download the OpenAPI spec (aka API schema) at [https://app.posthog.com/api/schema/](https://app.posthog.com/api/schema/). (Be sure to be logged in to app.posthog.com.)

- You can view the API schema with Swagger UI at [https://app.posthog.com/api/schema/swagger-ui/](https://app.posthog.com/api/schema/swagger-ui/) (Be sure to be logged in to app.posthog.com.)
