contents/docs/product-analytics/tutorials.mdx, before:

---
title: Tutorials and guides
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

## Capturing events

- [5 best practices for improving product analytics data](/blog/5-ways-to-improve-analytics-data)
- [How to filter out internal users](/tutorials/filter-internal-users)		
- [How to capture fewer unwanted events](/tutorials/fewer-unwanted-events)										
- [How to track high-volume APIs](/tutorials/track-high-volume-apis)

## Common metrics

- [How to track new and returning users](/tutorials/track-new-returning-users)
- [How to analyze first and last touch attribution](/tutorials/first-last-touch-attribution)
- [How to calculate time on page](/tutorials/time-on-page)
- [How to calculate bounce rates](/tutorials/bounce-rate)
- [How to calculate and lower churn rate](/tutorials/churn-rate)
- [How to calculate DAU/MAU ratio](/tutorials/dau-mau-ratio)		
- [How to track scroll depth](/tutorials/scroll-depth)
- [How to track performance marketing metrics](/tutorials/performance-marketing)																																			

## Analyzing events and insights

- [How to build, analyze and optimize conversion funnels](/tutorials/guide-to-funnels)
- [How to analyze autocapture events with HogQL](/tutorials/hogql-autocapture)
- [How to discover features that drive user retention](/tutorials/feature-retention)
- [How to identify and analyze power users](/tutorials/power-users)	

## Framework guides 

- [How to set up Angular analytics and more](/tutorials/angular-analytics)
- [How to set up Astro analytics and more](/tutorials/astro-analytics)
- [How to set up Bubble analytics and more](/tutorials/bubble-analytics)
- [How to set up Django analytics and more](/tutorials/django-analytics)
- [How to set up Framer analytics and more](/tutorials/framer-analytics)
- [How to set up Next.js analytics and more](/tutorials/nextjs-analytics)
- [How to set up Next.js app router analytics and more](/tutorials/nextjs-app-directory-analytics)
- [How to set up Node.js (Express) analytics and more](/tutorials/node-express-analytics)
- [How to set up Nuxt.js analytics](/tutorials/nuxt-analytics)
- [How to set up analytics in React](/tutorials/react-analytics)
- [How to set up React Native (Expo) analytics and more](/tutorials/react-native-analytics)
- [How to set up Remix analytics and more](/tutorials/remix-analytics)
- [How to set up Ruby on Rails analytics and more](/tutorials/ruby-on-rails-analytics)
- [How to set up Svelte analytics and more](/tutorials/svelte-analytics)
- [How to set up Vue analytics](/tutorials/vue-analytics)
- [How to set up Webflow analytics and more](/tutorials/webflow)

Commit message:

Overhaul and update tutorials pages for each product (#7815)
* initial

* Tutorials improvement

* Update contents/docs/experiments/tutorials.mdx

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Ian Vanagas <34755028+ivanagas@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Ian Vanagas <34755028+ivanagas@users.noreply.github.com>

contents/docs/product-analytics/tutorials.mdx, after:

---
title: Tutorials and guides
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---
Got a question which isn't answered below? Head to [the community forum](/questions) to let us know!

## How to capture and filter events
- [How to filter out internal users](/tutorials/filter-internal-users)		
- [How to capture fewer unwanted events](/tutorials/fewer-unwanted-events)										
- [How to track high-volume APIs](/tutorials/track-high-volume-apis)
- [How to set up cross domain tracking](/tutorials/cross-domain-tracking)
- [How to track pageviews in single-page apps (SPA)](/tutorials/single-page-app-pageviews)
- [How to create actions using CSS selectors](/tutorials/css-selectors-for-actions)

## How to track common metrics
- [How to track new and returning users](/tutorials/track-new-returning-users)
- [How to analyze first and last touch attribution](/tutorials/first-last-touch-attribution)
- [How to calculate time on page](/tutorials/time-on-page)
- [How to calculate bounce rates](/tutorials/bounce-rate)
- [How to calculate and lower churn rate](/tutorials/churn-rate)
- [How to calculate DAU/MAU ratio](/tutorials/dau-mau-ratio)		
- [How to track scroll depth](/tutorials/scroll-depth)
- [How to track performance marketing metrics](/tutorials/performance-marketing)
- [How to calculate average session-based metrics](/tutorials/session-metrics) 

## How to analyze events and actions
- [How to build, analyze and optimize conversion funnels](/tutorials/guide-to-funnels)
- [How to analyze autocapture events with HogQL](/tutorials/hogql-autocapture)
- [How to discover features that drive user retention](/tutorials/feature-retention)
- [How to identify and analyze power users](/tutorials/power-users)

## How to use HogQL
> Check [our HogQL tutorials](/docs/hogql/tutorials) for more information about analyzing events with HogQL.

## Framework guides 
- [How to set up Angular analytics and more](/tutorials/angular-analytics)
- [How to set up Astro analytics and more](/tutorials/astro-analytics)
- [How to set up Bubble analytics and more](/tutorials/bubble-analytics)
- [How to set up Django analytics and more](/tutorials/django-analytics)
- [How to set up Framer analytics and more](/tutorials/framer-analytics)
- [How to set up Next.js analytics and more](/tutorials/nextjs-analytics)
- [How to set up Next.js app router analytics and more](/tutorials/nextjs-app-directory-analytics)
- [How to set up Node.js (Express) analytics and more](/tutorials/node-express-analytics)
- [How to set up Nuxt.js analytics](/tutorials/nuxt-analytics)
- [How to set up analytics in React](/tutorials/react-analytics)
- [How to set up React Native (Expo) analytics and more](/tutorials/react-native-analytics)
- [How to set up Remix analytics and more](/tutorials/remix-analytics)
- [How to set up Ruby on Rails analytics and more](/tutorials/ruby-on-rails-analytics)
- [How to set up Svelte analytics and more](/tutorials/svelte-analytics)
- [How to set up Vue analytics](/tutorials/vue-analytics)
- [How to set up Webflow analytics and more](/tutorials/webflow)

## Best practices for product analytics
Find out how other teams, like [Y Combinator](/customers/ycombinator) and [Hasura](/customers/hasura), use product analytics in [our customer stories](/customers) - or check out our best practices for product analytics below...

- [The complete guide to event tracking](/tutorials/event-tracking-guide)
- [Introduction to regex in PostHog](/tutorials/regex-basics)
- [Understanding group analytics: frontend vs backend](/tutorials/frontend-vs-backend-group-analytics)
- [5 ways to improve your analytics data](/blog/5-ways-to-improve-analytics-data)
- [5 analytics ideas for marketing teams](/blog/analytics-tips-for-marketing-teams)
- [5 events all teams should track](/blog/events-you-should-track-with-posthog)
- [5 analytics tips for customer success team](/blog/analytics-tips-for-customer-success-teams)
