contents/docs/getting-started/enable-betas.mdx, before:

---
title: Enabling beta features
isArticle: true
hideAnchor: true
---

At PostHog, we ship _weirdly_ fast and there are always new betas for you to try. Many are available to everyone by default, such as [HogQL](/docs/hogql). Others require you to opt-in to try them out.

You can follow along with [the latest betas and updates on our changelog](/changelog). If you're interested in joining an opt-in beta, here's how.

### Requirements

Opt-in betas are available to all PostHog Cloud users, as PostHog Cloud is automatically updated to run the latest version of PostHog. Betas are not available for Hobby deployments, or [sunset K8s deployments](/blog/sunsetting-helm-support-posthog). 

### How to join an opt-in beta

- Log in to your PostHog account
- Select your user name in the bottom of the left sidebar
- Select 'Feature Previews'
- Toggle the betas you'd like to enable

### Further reading
You can always check the [docs](/docs) to get the latest information on PostHog features, or post a [question in the community](/questions) to get advice. If you spot a bug or have feedback, [please let us know in-app](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal).

Commit message:

Adds link to the beta modal (#7807)
* Update enable-betas.mdx

* Update contents/docs/getting-started/enable-betas.mdx

Co-authored-by: Ian Vanagas <34755028+ivanagas@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update contents/docs/getting-started/enable-betas.mdx

Co-authored-by: Ian Vanagas <34755028+ivanagas@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Ian Vanagas <34755028+ivanagas@users.noreply.github.com>

contents/docs/getting-started/enable-betas.mdx, after:

---
title: Enabling beta features
isArticle: true
hideAnchor: true
---

At PostHog, there are always new betas for you to try. Many are available to everyone by default, such as [HogQL](/docs/hogql). Others require you to opt-in to try them out.

You can follow along with [the latest betas and updates on our changelog](/changelog). If you're interested in joining an opt-in beta, [head to the feature previews menu in-app](http://us.posthog.com/home#panel=feature-previews).

### Requirements

Opt-in betas are available to all PostHog Cloud users, as PostHog Cloud is automatically updated to run the latest version of PostHog. Betas are not available for Hobby deployments, or [sunset K8s deployments](/blog/sunsetting-helm-support-posthog). 

### How to join an opt-in beta

To join an opt-in beta you just need to head to the [feature previews menu in-app](http://us.posthog.com/home#panel=feature-previews).

### Further reading
You can always check the [docs](/docs) to get the latest information on PostHog features, or post a [question in the community](/questions) to get advice. If you spot a bug or have feedback, [please let us know in-app](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal).
