contents/handbook/engineering/posthog-com/jobs.mdx, before:

---
title: Posting a new job listing
---

## Creating a new job

- Log in to [Ashby](https://www.ashbyhq.com/)
- Hover `Jobs`
- Click `Admin`
- Click `Create Job`
- Fill in the required fields
- Click `Create Draft`

You will now be on the settings page for the newly created job.

### Custom fields
We use custom fields to connect various data to each job posting. Below is the description and purpose of each.

#### Team
Team is the only required custom field. The value selected determines pineapple preference, objectives, mission, team lead, and which team members appear in the sidebar.

#### Timezone(s)
Determines the preferred timezone for the position. If a value exists, it appears under the title.

#### Repo
Determines which repo to pull GitHub issues from if using the Issues custom field.

#### Issues
A comma-separated list of GitHub issue numbers relevant to the position. Queried at build-time and shown in the automatically created `Typical tasks` section.

#### Salary
Determines which role to use in the salary calculator. If no value is present, the job title is used. The calculator is not rendered if there is no matching role in the compensation calculator.

#### Mission & objectives
Determines whether the Mission & objectives section is shown on job listings

## Creating a new job posting

Pages are only created for *listed* job postings. While viewing a job in Ashby:
- Click `Job Postings` in the sidebar
- Click `New Draft`

From here, you can create a job description and add automations.

### Job descriptions
Each job posting can have a different description. When creating a new description, separate sections by H2 if you would like them to be collapsible. When the site is built, sections that start with an H2 are transformed into collapsible elements and added to the table of contents. 

Below is a list of the automatically created sections and how they work.

#### Salary
This section appears if the job title or Salary custom field matches a job in the [SF benchmark file](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/blob/master/src/components/CompensationCalculator/compensation_data/sf_benchmark.ts).

#### Benefits
This section appears on all job postings. The data in this section can be updated [here](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/blob/master/src/components/Careers/Benefits/index.tsx).

#### Typical tasks
This section appears if any GitHub issues are added to the Issues custom field in Ashby. The custom field accepts a comma-separated list of GitHub issue numbers.

#### Objectives
This section appears if the team has a `mission.mdx` file in their team folder. [Example](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/blob/master/contents/handbook/small-teams/app-east/mission.mdx) 

#### Interview process
This section appears on all job postings. The data in this section can be updated [here](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/blob/master/src/components/Job/InterviewProcess.tsx). To add a custom interview process for a specific job, add a new key to the `roleInterviewProcess` variable and assign an array of [IInterviewProcess](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/blob/1fb3d8351f8fcf6e18cd28e4ba22ff3d84fbb8fc/src/components/Job/InterviewProcess.tsx#L3) objects.

Example:

```JavaScript
const roleInterviewProcess: Record<string, IInterviewProcess[]> = {
    'Site Reliability Engineer - Kubernetes': [
        defaultInterviewProcess[0],
        defaultInterviewProcess[1],
        {
            title: 'Technical interview',
            description: `You'll meet with an Engineer who will evaluate skills needed to be successful in your role.`,
            badge: '1 hour',
        },
        defaultInterviewProcess[3],
        defaultInterviewProcess[4],
    ],
}
```

#### Apply
This section appears on all job postings. The input fields here directly reflect the Application Form assigned to the job. The Application Form can be found on the job's settings page.

## Getting the job to appear on the site
If the job posting is published, the job will appear automatically the next time the site is rebuilt.

Commit message:

Add note on new salaries in Ashby to Handbook

contents/handbook/engineering/posthog-com/jobs.mdx, after:

---
title: Posting a new job listing
---

## Creating a new job

- Log in to [Ashby](https://www.ashbyhq.com/)
- Hover `Jobs`
- Click `Admin`
- Click `Create Job`
- Fill in the required fields
- Click `Create Draft`

You will now be on the settings page for the newly created job.

### Custom fields
We use custom fields to connect various data to each job posting. Below is the description and purpose of each.

#### Team
Team is the only required custom field. The value selected determines pineapple preference, objectives, mission, team lead, and which team members appear in the sidebar.

#### Timezone(s)
Determines the preferred timezone for the position. If a value exists, it appears under the title.

#### Repo
Determines which repo to pull GitHub issues from if using the Issues custom field.

#### Issues
A comma-separated list of GitHub issue numbers relevant to the position. Queried at build-time and shown in the automatically created `Typical tasks` section.

#### Salary
Determines which role to use in the salary calculator. If no value is present, the job title is used. The calculator is not rendered if there is no matching role in the compensation calculator. If the role has been newly added to the compensation calculator, you'll need to add the role as an option to the [custom field](https://app.ashbyhq.com/admin/organizational-settings/custom-fields/job/6d49283a-1662-40aa-a6ee-002767eed7e2) in Ashby global admin settings. 

#### Mission & objectives
Determines whether the Mission & objectives section is shown on job listings

## Creating a new job posting

Pages are only created for *listed* job postings. While viewing a job in Ashby:
- Click `Job Postings` in the sidebar
- Click `New Draft`

From here, you can create a job description and add automations.

### Job descriptions
Each job posting can have a different description. When creating a new description, separate sections by H2 if you would like them to be collapsible. When the site is built, sections that start with an H2 are transformed into collapsible elements and added to the table of contents. 

Below is a list of the automatically created sections and how they work.

#### Salary
This section appears if the job title or Salary custom field matches a job in the [SF benchmark file](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/blob/master/src/components/CompensationCalculator/compensation_data/sf_benchmark.ts).

#### Benefits
This section appears on all job postings. The data in this section can be updated [here](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/blob/master/src/components/Careers/Benefits/index.tsx).

#### Typical tasks
This section appears if any GitHub issues are added to the Issues custom field in Ashby. The custom field accepts a comma-separated list of GitHub issue numbers.

#### Objectives
This section appears if the team has a `mission.mdx` file in their team folder. [Example](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/blob/master/contents/handbook/small-teams/app-east/mission.mdx) 

#### Interview process
This section appears on all job postings. The data in this section can be updated [here](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/blob/master/src/components/Job/InterviewProcess.tsx). To add a custom interview process for a specific job, add a new key to the `roleInterviewProcess` variable and assign an array of [IInterviewProcess](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/blob/1fb3d8351f8fcf6e18cd28e4ba22ff3d84fbb8fc/src/components/Job/InterviewProcess.tsx#L3) objects.

Example:

```JavaScript
const roleInterviewProcess: Record<string, IInterviewProcess[]> = {
    'Site Reliability Engineer - Kubernetes': [
        defaultInterviewProcess[0],
        defaultInterviewProcess[1],
        {
            title: 'Technical interview',
            description: `You'll meet with an Engineer who will evaluate skills needed to be successful in your role.`,
            badge: '1 hour',
        },
        defaultInterviewProcess[3],
        defaultInterviewProcess[4],
    ],
}
```

#### Apply
This section appears on all job postings. The input fields here directly reflect the Application Form assigned to the job. The Application Form can be found on the job's settings page.

## Getting the job to appear on the site
If the job posting is published, the job will appear automatically the next time the site is rebuilt.
