contents/handbook/engineering/posthog-com/markdown.mdx, before:

---
title: Markdown
---

## Product screenshots

The `<ProductScreenshot>` component encapsulates an image with a border and background. It's useful since the app's background matches the website background, and without using this component, it can be hard to differentiate between the screenshot and normal page content. ([See an example](/docs/session-replay/how-to-control-which-sessions-you-record) of this component in action.)

It supports dark mode screenshots (optional). Here's how to use it:

1. Import the component and image(s) at the top of the post (directly following the MDX file's frontmatter and dashes):

  ```
  ---

  import { ProductScreenshot } from 'components/ProductScreenshot'
  import ImgSampleConfigLight from '../../images/tutorials/limit-session-recordings/sampling-config-light.png'
  import ImgSampleConfigDark from '../../images/tutorials/limit-session-recordings/sampling-config-dark.png'
  ```
1. Use the component wherever you want the image to appear.

  ```
  <ProductScreenshot
    imageLight={ImgSampleConfigLight} 
    imageDark={ImgSampleConfigDark} 
    alt="Sampling config shown set to 100% i.e. no sampling" 
    classes="rounded"
  />
  ```

  _Note: If you don't have a dark image, just leave out the `imageDark` prop and the light screenshot will be used for both color modes._

## Codeblocks

The PostHog website has a custom codeblock component that comes with a number of useful features built-in:

- [Syntax highDarking](#adding-syntax-highlighting)
- [Multiple snippets in a single codeblock](#multiple-code-snippets-in-one-block)
- [Specifying which file a snippet is from](#specifying-which-file-a-snippet-is-from)

### Basic codeblock

Codeblocks in PostHog are created by enclosing your snippet using three backticks (\`\`\`) or three tildes (\~\~\~), as shown below:

~~~mdx
```
{
    "name": "Max, Hedgehog in Residence",
    "age": 2
}
```
~~~

This will produce the following codeblock:

```
{
    "name": "Max, Hedgehog in Residence",
    "age": 2
}
```

### Adding syntax highlighting

Syntax highlighting can be added by specifying a language for the codeblock, which is done by appending the name of the language directly after the opening backticks or tildes as shown below.

~~~mdx
```json
{
    "name": "Max, Hedgehog in Residence",
    "age": 2
}
```
~~~

This will produce the following output:

```json
{
    "name": "Max, Hedgehog in Residence",
    "age": 2
}
```

### Supported languages

Here is a list of all the languages that are supported in codeblocks:

##### Frontend

|  |  |
| -- | -- |
| HTML | `html` |
| CSS / SCSS / LESS | `css` / `less` |
| JavaScript | `js` |
| JSX | `jsx` |
| TypeScript | `ts` |
| TSX | `tsx` |
| Swift | `swift` |
| Dart | `dart` |
| Objective-C | `objectivec` |

##### Backend

| | |
| -- | -- |
| Node.js | `node` |
| Elixir | `elixir` |
| Golang | `go` |
| Java | `java` |
| PHP | `php` |
| Ruby | `ruby` |
| Python | `python` |
| C / C++ | `c` / `cpp`

##### Misc.

| | |
| -- | -- |
| Terminal | `bash` or `shell` |
| JSON | `json` |
| XML | `xml` |
| SQL | `sql` |
| GraphQL | `graphql` |
| Markdown | `markdown` |
| MDX | `mdx` |
| YAML | `yaml` |
| Git | `git` |

> **Note:** If you want syntax highlighting for a snippet in another language, feel free to add your language to the imports [here](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/blob/149c7c2a99d66c4f961b538edb864c63ce186967/src/components/CodeBlock/languages.tsx#L6) and open a PR.


### Multiple code snippets in one block

With PostHog's `MultiLanguage` component, it's possible to group multiple code snippets together into a single block.

~~~mdx
<MultiLanguage>

```js
console.log("Hello world!")
```

```html
<div>Hello world!</div>
```

</MultiLanguage>
~~~

> **Note:** Make sure to include empty lines between all your code snippets, as well as above and below the `MultiLanguage` tag

This will render the following codeblock:

<MultiLanguage>

```js
console.log("Hello world!")
```

```html
<div>Hello world!</div>
```

</MultiLanguage>

### Specifying which file a snippet is from

You can specify a filename that a code snippet belongs to using the `file` parameter, which will be displayed in the top bar of the block.

~~~mdx
```yaml file=values.yaml
cloud: 'aws'
ingress:
    hostname: <your-hostname>
    nginx:
        enabled: true
cert-manager:
    enabled: true
```
~~~

> **Note:** Make sure **not** to surround your filename in quotes. Each parameter-value pair is delimited by spaces.

This produces the following codeblock:

```yaml file=values.yaml
cloud: 'aws'
ingress:
    hostname: <your-hostname>
    nginx:
        enabled: true
cert-manager:
    enabled: true
```

Commit message:

Private link indicator (#7491)
* rename to mdx

* created PrivateLink component

* documented <PrivateLink />

* don't import component into MDX since it's imported globally

* update instructions for <ProductScreenshot /> to remove manual import

* use children

---------

Co-authored-by: Eli Kinsey <eli@ekinsey.dev>

contents/handbook/engineering/posthog-com/markdown.mdx, after:

---
title: Markdown
---

## Product screenshots

The `<ProductScreenshot>` component encapsulates an image with a border and background. It's useful since the app's background matches the website background, and without using this component, it can be hard to differentiate between the screenshot and normal page content. ([See an example](/docs/session-replay/how-to-control-which-sessions-you-record) of this component in action.)

It supports dark mode screenshots (optional). Here's how to use it:

1. Import the image(s) at the top of the post (directly following the MDX file's frontmatter and dashes):

  ```
  ---

  import ImgSampleConfigLight from '../../images/tutorials/limit-session-recordings/sampling-config-light.png'
  import ImgSampleConfigDark from '../../images/tutorials/limit-session-recordings/sampling-config-dark.png'
  ```
1. Use the component wherever you want the image to appear.

  ```
  <ProductScreenshot
    imageLight={ImgSampleConfigLight} 
    imageDark={ImgSampleConfigDark} 
    alt="Sampling config shown set to 100% i.e. no sampling" 
    classes="rounded"
  />
  ```

  _Note: If you don't have a dark image, just leave out the `imageDark` prop and the light screenshot will be used for both color modes._

## Codeblocks

The PostHog website has a custom codeblock component that comes with a number of useful features built-in:

- [Syntax highDarking](#adding-syntax-highlighting)
- [Multiple snippets in a single codeblock](#multiple-code-snippets-in-one-block)
- [Specifying which file a snippet is from](#specifying-which-file-a-snippet-is-from)

### Basic codeblock

Codeblocks in PostHog are created by enclosing your snippet using three backticks (\`\`\`) or three tildes (\~\~\~), as shown below:

~~~mdx
```
{
    "name": "Max, Hedgehog in Residence",
    "age": 2
}
```
~~~

This will produce the following codeblock:

```
{
    "name": "Max, Hedgehog in Residence",
    "age": 2
}
```

### Adding syntax highlighting

Syntax highlighting can be added by specifying a language for the codeblock, which is done by appending the name of the language directly after the opening backticks or tildes as shown below.

~~~mdx
```json
{
    "name": "Max, Hedgehog in Residence",
    "age": 2
}
```
~~~

This will produce the following output:

```json
{
    "name": "Max, Hedgehog in Residence",
    "age": 2
}
```

### Supported languages

Here is a list of all the languages that are supported in codeblocks:

##### Frontend

|  |  |
| -- | -- |
| HTML | `html` |
| CSS / SCSS / LESS | `css` / `less` |
| JavaScript | `js` |
| JSX | `jsx` |
| TypeScript | `ts` |
| TSX | `tsx` |
| Swift | `swift` |
| Dart | `dart` |
| Objective-C | `objectivec` |

##### Backend

| | |
| -- | -- |
| Node.js | `node` |
| Elixir | `elixir` |
| Golang | `go` |
| Java | `java` |
| PHP | `php` |
| Ruby | `ruby` |
| Python | `python` |
| C / C++ | `c` / `cpp`

##### Misc.

| | |
| -- | -- |
| Terminal | `bash` or `shell` |
| JSON | `json` |
| XML | `xml` |
| SQL | `sql` |
| GraphQL | `graphql` |
| Markdown | `markdown` |
| MDX | `mdx` |
| YAML | `yaml` |
| Git | `git` |

> **Note:** If you want syntax highlighting for a snippet in another language, feel free to add your language to the imports [here](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/blob/149c7c2a99d66c4f961b538edb864c63ce186967/src/components/CodeBlock/languages.tsx#L6) and open a PR.


### Multiple code snippets in one block

With PostHog's `MultiLanguage` component, it's possible to group multiple code snippets together into a single block.

~~~mdx
<MultiLanguage>

```js
console.log("Hello world!")
```

```html
<div>Hello world!</div>
```

</MultiLanguage>
~~~

> **Note:** Make sure to include empty lines between all your code snippets, as well as above and below the `MultiLanguage` tag

This will render the following codeblock:

<MultiLanguage>

```js
console.log("Hello world!")
```

```html
<div>Hello world!</div>
```

</MultiLanguage>

### Specifying which file a snippet is from

You can specify a filename that a code snippet belongs to using the `file` parameter, which will be displayed in the top bar of the block.

~~~mdx
```yaml file=values.yaml
cloud: 'aws'
ingress:
    hostname: <your-hostname>
    nginx:
        enabled: true
cert-manager:
    enabled: true
```
~~~

> **Note:** Make sure **not** to surround your filename in quotes. Each parameter-value pair is delimited by spaces.

This produces the following codeblock:

```yaml file=values.yaml
cloud: 'aws'
ingress:
    hostname: <your-hostname>
    nginx:
        enabled: true
cert-manager:
    enabled: true
```

## Private links

Sometimes we link to confidential information in our handbook. Since the handbook is public, it's useful to indicate when a link is private so visitors aren't confused as to why they can't access a URL. Use the `<PrivateLink />` component for this. ([Here's an example.](/handbook/people/share-options#what-are-my-share-options-actually-worth))

```
<PrivateLink url="https://path/to/private/link">
  click here
</PrivateLink>

```

Private links will always open in a new tab.

_Note: When used within a paragraph, you'll need to convert the paragraph into HTML first (wrap with `<p></p>`) for the component to be recognized by MDX._
