contents/docs/experiments/adding-experiment-code.mdx, before:

---
title: Adding experiment code
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
availability:
    free: none
    selfServe: full
    enterprise: full
---

Once you've created your experiment in PostHog, the next step is to add your code:

## Step 1: Fetch the feature flag

In your experiment, each user is randomly assigned to a variant (usually either 'control' or 'test'). To check which variant a user has been assigned to, fetch the experiment feature flag. You can then customize their experience based on the value in the feature flag:

<MultiLanguage>

```js-web
// Ensure flags are loaded before usage.
// You only need to call this on the code the first time a user visits.
// See this doc for more details: https://posthog.com/docs/feature-flags/manual#ensuring-flags-are-loaded-before-usage
posthog.onFeatureFlags(function() {
    // feature flags should be available at this point
    if (posthog.getFeatureFlag('experiment-feature-flag-key')  == 'variant-name') {
        // do something
    }
})

// Otherwise, you can just do:
if (posthog.getFeatureFlag('experiment-feature-flag-key')  == 'variant-name') {
    // do something
}

// You can also test your code by overriding the feature flag:
// e.g., posthog.featureFlags.override({'experiment-feature-flag-key': 'test'})
```

```react
// You can either use the `useFeatureFlagVariantKey` hook,
// or you can use the feature flags component - https://posthog.com/docs/libraries/react#feature-flags-react-component

// Method one: using the useFeatureFlagVariantKey hook
import { useFeatureFlagVariantKey } from 'posthog-js/react'

function App() {
    const variant = useFeatureFlagVariantKey('experiment-feature-flag-key')
    if (variant == 'variant-name') {
        // do something
    }
}

// Method two: using the feature flags component
import { PostHogFeature } from 'posthog-js/react'

function App() {
    return (
        <PostHogFeature flag='experiment-feature-flag-key' match={'variant-name'}>
            <div>
                <!-- the component to show -->
            </div>
        </PostHogFeature>
    )
}


// You can also test your code by overriding the feature flag:
// e.g., posthog.featureFlags.override({'experiment-feature-flag-key': 'test'})
```

```react-native
// With the useFeatureFlag hook
import { useFeatureFlag } from 'posthog-react-native'

const MyComponent = () => {
    const variant = useFeatureFlag('experiment-feature-flag-key')

    if (variant === undefined) {
        // the response is undefined if the flags are being loaded
        return null
    }

    if (variant == 'variant-name') {
        // do something
    }
}           
```

```android_kotlin
if (PostHog.getFeatureFlag("experiment-feature-flag-key")  == "variant-name") {
    // do something
}
```

```ios_swift
if (PostHogSDK.shared.getFeatureFlag("experiment-feature-flag-key") as? String == "variant-name") {
    // do something
}
```

```node
const variant = await client.getFeatureFlag('experiment-feature-flag-key', 'user_distinct_id')

if (variant === 'variant-name') {
    // do something
}
```

```python
variant = posthog.get_feature_flag('experiment-feature-flag-key', 'user_distinct_id')

if variant == 'variant-name':
    # Do something
```

```php
$variant = PostHog::getFeatureFlag('experiment-feature-flag-key', 'user_distinct_id')

if ($variant === 'variant-name') {
    // Do something differently for this user
}
```

```ruby
variant = posthog.get_feature_flag('experiment-feature-flag-key', 'user_distinct_id')

if variant == 'variant-name'
    # Do something 
end
```

```go
variant, err := client.GetFeatureFlag(
            FeatureFlagPayload{
                Key:        "experiment-feature-flag-key",
                DistinctId: "user_distinct_id",
            })

if variant == "variant-name" {
    // Do something
}
```
</MultiLanguage>

> Since feature flags are not supported yet in our Java, Rust, and Elixir SDKs, to run an experiment using these SDKs see our docs on [how to run experiments without feature flags](/docs/experiments/running-experiments-without-feature-flags). This also applies to running experiments using our API.

## Step 2 (server-side only): Add the feature flag property to your events 

For any server-side events that are also goal metrics for your experiment, you need to include a property `$feature/experiment_feature_flag_name: variant_name` when capturing those events. This ensures that the event is attributed to the correct experiment variant (e.g., test or control).

This step is not required for events that are submitted via our client-side SDKs (e.g., JavaScript web, iOS, Android, React, React Native).

<MultiLanguage>

```node
client.capture({
    distinctId: 'distinct_id',
    event: 'event_name_of_your_goal_metric',
    properties: {
        '$feature/experiment-feature-flag-key': 'variant-name'
    },
})
```

```python
posthog.capture(
    'distinct_id',
    'event_name_of_your_goal_metric',
    {
        '$feature/experiment-feature-flag-key': 'variant-name'
    }
)
```

```php
PostHog::capture(array(
  'distinctId' => 'distinct_id',
  'event' => 'event_name_of_your_goal_metric',
  'properties' => array(
    '$feature/experiment-feature-flag-key'  = 'variant-name'
  )
));
```

```ruby
posthog.capture({
    distinct_id: 'distinct_id',
    event: 'event_name_of_your_goal_metric',
    properties: {
        '$feature/experiment-feature-flag-key': 'variant-name',
    }
})
```

```go
client.Enqueue(posthog.Capture{
  DistinctId: "distinct_id",
  Event:      "event_name_of_your_goal_metric",
  Properties: posthog.NewProperties().
    Set("$feature/experiment-feature-flag-key", "variant-name"),
})
```

```java
posthog.capture(
  "distinct_id",
  "event_name_of_your_goal_metric",
  new HashMap<String, Object>() {
    {
      put("$feature/experiment-feature-flag-key", "variant-name");
    }
  }
);
```

</MultiLanguage>

Commit message:

chore(docs): events are auto-annotated with flags when locally evaluated (#7849)
Co-authored-by: Lior539 <lneuner@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Neil Kakkar <neilkakkar@gmail.com>

contents/docs/experiments/adding-experiment-code.mdx, after:

---
title: Adding experiment code
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
availability:
    free: none
    selfServe: full
    enterprise: full
---

Once you've created your experiment in PostHog, the next step is to add your code:

## Step 1: Fetch the feature flag

In your experiment, each user is randomly assigned to a variant (usually either 'control' or 'test'). To check which variant a user has been assigned to, fetch the experiment feature flag. You can then customize their experience based on the value in the feature flag:

<MultiLanguage>

```js-web
// Ensure flags are loaded before usage.
// You only need to call this on the code the first time a user visits.
// See this doc for more details: https://posthog.com/docs/feature-flags/manual#ensuring-flags-are-loaded-before-usage
posthog.onFeatureFlags(function() {
    // feature flags should be available at this point
    if (posthog.getFeatureFlag('experiment-feature-flag-key')  == 'variant-name') {
        // do something
    }
})

// Otherwise, you can just do:
if (posthog.getFeatureFlag('experiment-feature-flag-key')  == 'variant-name') {
    // do something
}

// You can also test your code by overriding the feature flag:
// e.g., posthog.featureFlags.override({'experiment-feature-flag-key': 'test'})
```

```react
// You can either use the `useFeatureFlagVariantKey` hook,
// or you can use the feature flags component - https://posthog.com/docs/libraries/react#feature-flags-react-component

// Method one: using the useFeatureFlagVariantKey hook
import { useFeatureFlagVariantKey } from 'posthog-js/react'

function App() {
    const variant = useFeatureFlagVariantKey('experiment-feature-flag-key')
    if (variant == 'variant-name') {
        // do something
    }
}

// Method two: using the feature flags component
import { PostHogFeature } from 'posthog-js/react'

function App() {
    return (
        <PostHogFeature flag='experiment-feature-flag-key' match={'variant-name'}>
            <div>
                <!-- the component to show -->
            </div>
        </PostHogFeature>
    )
}


// You can also test your code by overriding the feature flag:
// e.g., posthog.featureFlags.override({'experiment-feature-flag-key': 'test'})
```

```react-native
// With the useFeatureFlag hook
import { useFeatureFlag } from 'posthog-react-native'

const MyComponent = () => {
    const variant = useFeatureFlag('experiment-feature-flag-key')

    if (variant === undefined) {
        // the response is undefined if the flags are being loaded
        return null
    }

    if (variant == 'variant-name') {
        // do something
    }
}           
```

```android_kotlin
if (PostHog.getFeatureFlag("experiment-feature-flag-key")  == "variant-name") {
    // do something
}
```

```ios_swift
if (PostHogSDK.shared.getFeatureFlag("experiment-feature-flag-key") as? String == "variant-name") {
    // do something
}
```

```node
const variant = await client.getFeatureFlag('experiment-feature-flag-key', 'user_distinct_id')

if (variant === 'variant-name') {
    // do something
}
```

```python
variant = posthog.get_feature_flag('experiment-feature-flag-key', 'user_distinct_id')

if variant == 'variant-name':
    # Do something
```

```php
$variant = PostHog::getFeatureFlag('experiment-feature-flag-key', 'user_distinct_id')

if ($variant === 'variant-name') {
    // Do something differently for this user
}
```

```ruby
variant = posthog.get_feature_flag('experiment-feature-flag-key', 'user_distinct_id')

if variant == 'variant-name'
    # Do something 
end
```

```go
variant, err := client.GetFeatureFlag(
            FeatureFlagPayload{
                Key:        "experiment-feature-flag-key",
                DistinctId: "user_distinct_id",
            })

if variant == "variant-name" {
    // Do something
}
```
</MultiLanguage>

> Since feature flags are not supported yet in our Java, Rust, and Elixir SDKs, to run an experiment using these SDKs see our docs on [how to run experiments without feature flags](/docs/experiments/running-experiments-without-feature-flags). This also applies to running experiments using our API.

## Step 2 (server-side only): Add the feature flag property to your events 

For any server-side events that are also goal metrics for your experiment, you need to include a property `$feature/experiment_feature_flag_name: variant_name` when capturing those events. This ensures that the event is attributed to the correct experiment variant (e.g., test or control).

> This step is not required for events that are submitted via our client-side SDKs (e.g., JavaScript web, iOS, Android, React, React Native).

> For our backend SDKs, with the exception of the Go library, this step is not required if the server has [local evaluation](/docs/feature-flags/local-evaluation) enabled and the flag in question has no property filters. In these cases, flag information is automatically appended to every event sent to PostHog.



<MultiLanguage>

```node
client.capture({
    distinctId: 'distinct_id',
    event: 'event_name_of_your_goal_metric',
    properties: {
        '$feature/experiment-feature-flag-key': 'variant-name'
    },
})
```

```python
posthog.capture(
    'distinct_id',
    'event_name_of_your_goal_metric',
    {
        '$feature/experiment-feature-flag-key': 'variant-name'
    }
)
```

```php
PostHog::capture(array(
  'distinctId' => 'distinct_id',
  'event' => 'event_name_of_your_goal_metric',
  'properties' => array(
    '$feature/experiment-feature-flag-key'  = 'variant-name'
  )
));
```

```ruby
posthog.capture({
    distinct_id: 'distinct_id',
    event: 'event_name_of_your_goal_metric',
    properties: {
        '$feature/experiment-feature-flag-key': 'variant-name',
    }
})
```

```go
client.Enqueue(posthog.Capture{
  DistinctId: "distinct_id",
  Event:      "event_name_of_your_goal_metric",
  Properties: posthog.NewProperties().
    Set("$feature/experiment-feature-flag-key", "variant-name"),
})
```

```java
posthog.capture(
  "distinct_id",
  "event_name_of_your_goal_metric",
  new HashMap<String, Object>() {
    {
      put("$feature/experiment-feature-flag-key", "variant-name");
    }
  }
);
```

</MultiLanguage>
