contents/docs/experiments/tutorials.mdx, before:

---
title: Tutorials and guides
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

## Tutorials

- [Running experiments on new users](/tutorials/new-user-experiments)	
- [How to set up A/B/n testing](/tutorials/abn-testing)																					
- [How to do holdout testing](/tutorials/holdout-testing)
  
## Framework guides 
 
- [How to run A/B tests in Android](/tutorials/android-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Angular](/tutorials/angular-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Astro](/tutorials/astro-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Bubble](/tutorials/bubble-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Django](/tutorials/django-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Framer](/tutorials/framer-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in iOS](/tutorials/ios-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Go](/tutorials/go-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Laravel](/tutorials/laravel-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Next.js](/tutorials/nextjs-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Node.js (Express)](/tutorials/node-express-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Nuxt](/tutorials/nuxtjs-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in PHP](/tutorials/php-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Python](/tutorials/python-ab-testing)
- [How to run A/B tests in React](/tutorials/react-ab-testing)
- [How to run A/B tests in Remix](/tutorials/remix-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Ruby on Rails](/tutorials/ruby-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Svelte](/tutorials/svelte-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Vue](/tutorials/vue-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Webflow](/tutorials/webflow-ab-tests)

## Posts 

- [A software engineer's guide to A/B testing](/blog/ab-testing-guide-for-engineers)
- [8 annoying A/B testing mistakes every engineer should know](/blog/ab-testing-mistakes)
- [When and how to run group-targeted A/B tests](/blog/running-group-targeted-ab-tests)
- [How to do A/B testing – a guide for beginners](/product-engineers/how-to-do-ab-testing)

Commit message:

Overhaul and update tutorials pages for each product (#7815)
* initial

* Tutorials improvement

* Update contents/docs/experiments/tutorials.mdx

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Ian Vanagas <34755028+ivanagas@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Ian Vanagas <34755028+ivanagas@users.noreply.github.com>

contents/docs/experiments/tutorials.mdx, after:

---
title: Tutorials and guides
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---
Got a question which isn't answered below? Head to [the community forum](/questions) to let us know!

- [How to run experiments on new users](/tutorials/new-user-experiments)
- [How to do A/A testing](/tutorials/aa-testing)
- [How to do A/B/n testing](/tutorials/abn-testing)																					
- [How to do holdout testing](/tutorials/holdout-testing)
- [How to do redirect testing](/tutorials/redirect-testing)
- [How to run a fake door test](/tutorials/fake-door-test)
  
## Framework guides 
- [How to run A/B tests in Android](/tutorials/android-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Angular](/tutorials/angular-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Astro](/tutorials/astro-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Bubble](/tutorials/bubble-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Django](/tutorials/django-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Framer](/tutorials/framer-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in iOS](/tutorials/ios-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Go](/tutorials/go-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Laravel](/tutorials/laravel-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Next.js](/tutorials/nextjs-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Node.js (Express)](/tutorials/node-express-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Nuxt](/tutorials/nuxtjs-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in PHP](/tutorials/php-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Python](/tutorials/python-ab-testing)
- [How to run A/B tests in React](/tutorials/react-ab-testing)
- [How to run A/B tests in Remix](/tutorials/remix-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Ruby on Rails](/tutorials/ruby-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Svelte](/tutorials/svelte-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Vue](/tutorials/vue-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Webflow](/tutorials/webflow-ab-tests)
- [How to run A/B tests in Python](/tutorials/python-ab-testing)

## Best practices for A/B testing
Find out how other teams, like [Y Combinator](/customers/ycombinator) and [Vendasta](/customers/vendasta), use A/B testing in [our customer stories](/customers), or check out our best practices for experimentation below...

- [A beginners guide to A/B testing](/product-engineers/how-to-do-ab-testing)
- [A software engineer's guide to A/B testing](/blog/ab-testing-guide-for-engineers)
- [8 annoying A/B testing mistakes every engineer should know](/blog/ab-testing-mistakes)
- [When and how to run group-targeted A/B tests](/blog/running-group-targeted-ab-tests)
