contents/handbook/small-teams/replay/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Team Replay
sidebar: Handbook
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: false
---

<TeamMembers />

## Mission

We help customers understand _"the why"_ behind data and metrics in PostHog. Our tools help customers re-create, analyze, and understand the experience of individual users.

We build the [heads-up display](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Head-up_display) within your product


## Q4 2023 Goals

### 🎯 Goal 1 : Project "NoteForce Exploration 3000" (Ben, David)

Why? Pairing up with Michael, Thomas, and Cory from Team Product Analytics to focus on not just releasing Notebooks, but integrating them seamlessly with PostHog 3000 to make it a great experience to explore any and all data across PostHog.

### 🎯 Goal 2 : Mobile Session Replay (Manoel, Paul)

Why? - The people want it and we have the right skills in house to do a good job of this. Replay is the main focus, but making mobile a first-class citizen of PostHog is the real goal.

Follow along in [our Q4 MegaIssue](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/issues/17803)

## Areas of responsibility

- **Session Replay** - recording browser or mobile sessions to be replayed later
- **Toolbar** - a floating helper on your web app that helps to toggle feature flags, display heatmaps and provide contextual analysis
- **Notebooks** - a way to explore your data in a free format environment, for example to add comments to a session replay


## Slack channel

[#team-replay](https://posthog.slack.com/messages/team-replay)

## Feature ownership
You can find out more about the features we own [here](/handbook/engineering/feature-ownership)

## What we're building

<TeamRoadmap />

Commit message:

Update replay team goals - Q1 2024 (#7343)
* add goals

* Update contents/handbook/small-teams/replay/index.mdx

* Update contents/handbook/small-teams/replay/index.mdx

* Update contents/handbook/small-teams/replay/index.mdx

* Update contents/handbook/small-teams/replay/index.mdx

* Update contents/handbook/small-teams/replay/index.mdx

contents/handbook/small-teams/replay/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Team Replay
sidebar: Handbook
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: false
---

<TeamMembers />

## Mission

We help customers understand _"the why"_ behind data and metrics in PostHog. Our tools help customers re-create, analyze, and understand the experience of individual users.

We build the [heads-up display](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Head-up_display) within your product


## Q4 2023 Goals

### 🎯 Goal 1: 10 Happy Android Replay Users 

We'll also release an alpha of iOS Mobile Replay.

Why? 

We've done the work's base and now we want to release the new Android SDK with session replay and onboard customers to validate the product. 

### 🎯 Goal 2: People love replay even more

Why? - we want this product to be fit for everyone and understand where it doesn't spark joy and how we can increase the value people receive and feel.

### 🎯 Goal 3: First-class mobile support in app.posthog.com

Why? We're making the mobile SDKs equivalent to the web SDKs. We want to make sure that the mobile SDKs are first-class citizens in app.posthog.com so that it is easy to use and explore your mobile data.

Follow along in [our Q1 MegaIssue](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/issues/19327)

## Areas of responsibility

- **Session Replay** - recording browser or mobile sessions to be replayed later
- **Toolbar** - a floating helper on your web app that helps to toggle feature flags, display heatmaps and provide contextual analysis
- **Mobile SDKs** - the knowledge to level these up are in our team
- **Notebooks** - a way to explore your data in a free format environment, for example to add comments to a session replay

## A note on notebooks

(pun intended)

We own Notebooks the platform, but we aren't actively working on it while it beds in and customers show us what they use it for. We'll provide bugfixes to notebooks (the platform) and support to teams wanting to change their products in notebooks. But feature requests for existing products within notebooks (e.g. insights in notebooks) go to the team that own the product not to us.


## Slack channel

[#team-replay](https://posthog.slack.com/messages/team-replay)

## Feature ownership
You can find out more about the features we own [here](/handbook/engineering/feature-ownership)

## What we're building

<TeamRoadmap />
