contents/blog/posthog-vs-ga4.mdx, before:

---
date: 2023-10-17
title: "In-depth: PostHog vs Google Analytics 4"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-vs-ga4/posthog-vs-ga4.jpeg
featuredImageType: full
author:
    - lior-neu-ner
category: General
tags:
    - Comparisons
---

import { ComparisonTable } from 'components/ComparisonTable'
import { ComparisonHeader } from 'components/ComparisonTable/header'
import { ComparisonRow } from 'components/ComparisonTable/row'

Want to understand how PostHog and Google Analytics 4 (GA4) are different? Here's the short answer:

- **Google Analytics** is primarily designed for marketers who want to analyze landing pages, compare marketing channels, and return on ad spend.

- **PostHog** is an all-in-one platform built to help engineers understand users and create better products. It includes analytics and a whole bunch more, such as session replays, feature flags, A/B testing, and surveys.

In this article we’ll explore these differences in more detail, and take a deep dive into the analytics features of both.

## How is PostHog different to Google Analytics?

### 1. PostHog does more than analytics

[Analytics](/product-analytics) is a core part of our platform, but it's just one component in a set of important tools for product teams. PostHog enables you to collect feedback with [surveys](/docs/surveys), understand user behavior with [session replays](/session-replay), test changes with [A/B tests](/ab-testing), and deploy changes with [feature flags](/feature-flags).

### 2. PostHog is built for engineers

Anyone can use PostHog – just [ask our marketing team](/blog/posthog-marketing) – but PostHog is designed to meet the needs of engineers. Our goal is to help developers [be better at product](/blog/helping-engineers-to-product).

### 3. PostHog is open source and transparent

PostHog is built with transparency at its core. We work in the open and give full access to our [source code](https://github.com/PostHog), and enable you to [build integrations](/docs/apps/build) and [other services](/blog/how-we-built-an-app-server) on top of the product. You can even give feedback on [our public roadmap](/roadmap).

## Core features

PostHog offers a wider selection of features than GA4, which focuses solely on analytics. This makes PostHog better suited for teams who are building products.

<ComparisonTable column1="GA4" column2="PostHog">
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Analytics" description="Custom trends, funnels, and retention analysis" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Session replays" description="Watch real users use your product; diagnose bugs" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Heatmaps" description="Visualize where users click in your app or website" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Feature flags" description="Roll out features safely; toggle features for cohorts or individuals" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Surveys" description="Ask users for qualitative feedback and gather responses" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="A/B testing" description="Test changes and analyze impact" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Apps and integrations" description="Push and pull data to other destinations" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Open source" description="Full access to source code and transparent roadmap" />
</ComparisonTable>

## Analytics features

Both GA4 and PostHog offer analytics, but _what_ they offer is drastically different. 

GA4 has better features for calculating monetization and ROI on Google Ads and other marketing campaigns. This is particularly helpful for e-commerce websites. 

PostHog, on the other hand, focuses on providing insights on product and feature usage. The biggest difference is [group analytics](/docs/product-analytics/group-analytics), which enable you to track metrics at an account or company level – a feature which GA4 lacks. This makes PostHog especially useful for building B2B SaaS products.

<ComparisonTable column1="GA4" column2="PostHog">
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Group analytics" description="Track metrics at account or company level" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Monetization analytics" description="Track purchase value, LTV, and other revenue metrics" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Advertising analytics" description="Track ROI on Google Ads and other marketing campaigns" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Real-time reporting" description="Monitor activity on your site or app as it happens." />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Predictive insights" description="AI-powered alerts when metrics change" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Traffic breakdown" description="Gain insights into where your visitors and conversions are coming from" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="User profiles" description="View user demographic data such as country, language, and device type" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="UTM tracking" description="Track marketing campaigns with UTM tags" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Funnels" description="Visualize conversion rates and drop-offs" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="User paths" description="Track user flows and where they drop-off" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Retention" description="Analyze user and revenue retention" />
</ComparisonTable>

PostHog also offers the following features to help you understand how people are using your product:

<ComparisonTable column1="GA" column2="PostHog">
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Correlation analysis" description="Automatically highlight factors affecting funnel conversion rates" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Lifecycle insights" description="Break down events from new, returning, resurrecting, and dormant users" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Stickiness insights" description="See how many times users perform an event in a period of time" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Formulas" description="Use custom formulas to create unique insights" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Requires BigQuery" column2={true} feature="SQL access" description="Write your own queries in SQL" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Toolbar" description="View insights on your live website or app with an overlay" />
</ComparisonTable>

## Apps and integrations

Because PostHog is built to be your single source of truth for viewing data, it's very simple to import data from other sources. 

In contrast, it's hard to import data into GA4 because:

1. The data type and format you're allowed to [import into GA4](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/10071301) is restrictive. 
2. You either need to constantly upload CSV files manually, or set up an SFTP server to automatically do this for you.

However, GA4 is well integrated into the Google ecosystem, making it easy to transfer data between it and other Google products.

Below is a comparison of some of the most popular apps. For a full list of PostHog’s available integrations, [check our app directory](/cdp).



<ComparisonTable column1="GA" column2="PostHog">
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Zapier" description="Trigger Zaps with events" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Hubspot" description="Sync event and person data" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Salesforce" description="Sync event and person data" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Intercom" description="Extract and load data to external platforms" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Customer.io" description="Sync data between platforms" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Sentry" description="Ingest Sentry errors for analysis" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Google Ads" description="Track Google ad ROI" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Google Search Console" description="Seamlessly import data from your search console" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Google BigQuery" description="Automatically export data to BigQuery" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Google Looker Studio" description="Visualize events in Looker dashboards" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Requires 3rd party integration" column2={true} feature="Slack" description="Receive notifications about new data" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Requires 3rd party integration" column2={true} feature="Discord" description="Receive notifications about new data" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Requires 3rd party integration" column2={true} feature="MS Teams" description="Receive notifications about new data" />
</ComparisonTable>

> One unique advantage of PostHog is that, because it is open source, it’s easy to [create your own apps and integrations](/tutorials/build-your-own-posthog-app). This is useful if you’re, for example, using niche software in your stack that hasn’t been widely adopted, or if you require a direct integration between PostHog and your product. 

## Privacy, compliance, and security

PostHog makes GDPR compliance easy by letting you choose where your data is hosted: EU or US. PostHog also offers cookie-less tracking, and a variety of security options to keep your data secure. 

GA4 also offers various [privacy controls](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/9019185), but you can't choose where your data is stored.

<ComparisonTable column1="GA" column2="PostHog">
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="EU hosting available" description="" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Data anonymization" description="" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Cookie-less tracking option" description="" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="ISO 27001" column2="SOC 2" feature="Security certification" description="" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2="Feature flags only" feature="Role-based access control" description="" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="SAML/SSO available" description="" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="" description="2FA available" />
</ComparisonTable>

## Frequently asked questions 

### Does PostHog have reports, dimensions, and other GA4 features?

Yes, PostHog has much of the same functionality as Google Analytics, but much of it is named differently. Here’s a quick comparison of the two:

<div className="overflow-x-auto -mx-5 px-5">
<table className="w-full mt-4" style="min-width: 600px;">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <td><strong>GA name</strong></td>
      <td><strong>PostHog equivalent</strong></td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Report</td>
      <td>Insight</td>
      <td>Query and filter analytics data and visualize results. Types include trends, funnels, retention, and more.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Dimensions</td>
      <td>Properties</td>
      <td>Additional details added to events, persons, and groups such as location, browser, and status.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>View</td>
      <td>Dashboard</td>
      <td>A collection of insights displayed together.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Audience</td>
      <td>Persons</td>
      <td>Represents a user or set of users who create events, potentially filtered by properties or behaviors.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Segment</td>
      <td>Filter</td>
      <td>A way to create a subset of your data.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Goals and conversions</td>
      <td>Actions</td>
      <td>An event or collection of events representing a target behavior.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Client ID</td>
      <td>Distinct ID</td>
      <td>A unique identifier for a user.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Measurement ID</td>
      <td>Project API key</td>
      <td>The unique identifier for your project, used to send data to your PostHog instance.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
</div>

> Familiar with Google Analytics and want more information on how to use PostHog? We've written a [guide to PostHog for Google Analytics users](/blog/google-analytics-to-posthog).

### How much do PostHog and Google Analytics cost?

GA4 has a free tier which should be sufficient for most startups and scale-ups. Larger enterprises with higher data collection and export requirements will need to upgrade to GA360, which starts at $50,000 per year. 

A good rule of thumb is that if you're exporting more than 1 million events per day, or querying data with more than 10 million events, you'll need to upgrade to GA360 (see a full breakdown on [their website](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/11202874)). 

PostHog has transparent pricing based on the usage. It’s free to get started and completely free for the first 1 million analytics events. After this free monthly allowance, you'll pay $0.00031/event, and PostHog charges progressively less the more you use. We recommend trying [our pricing calculator](/pricing) and reading our [guide for estimating your usage](/docs/billing/estimating-usage-costs).

### Does PostHog offer a free trial?

With PostHog, you don’t need a free trial — it’s free to get started, with a generous monthly allowance of events, replays, and feature flag requests. If you’re within this allowance, PostHog is free to use forever.

### Are there discounts for nonprofits and startups?

Yes, PostHog offers both. Nonprofit organizations can contact our team and are usually eligible for a 50% discount, while startups can sign up for $50,000 of free credit (and a host of other perks) in the [PostHog for Startups program](/startups).

<ArrayCTA />

Commit message:

Updates to comparisons (#7452)
* Update posthog-vs-amplitude.mdx

* Fix typos

* Update posthog-vs-amplitude.mdx

* Various bits

* Update posthog-vs-amplitude.mdx

* Update posthog-vs-amplitude.mdx

* Hopefully fixes build error

* Update posthog-vs-mixpanel.mdx

* Adding images and better words

* Moving stuff around

* Moving more stuff around

* Update posthog-vs-amplitude.mdx

* Removing images

* Copy and layout changes

* Tweaky bois

* Some more tweaks

* Fix typos

* Some other small changes to other comparisons

* Typos

* Rough edges

* Ian's suggestions

Co-authored-by: Lior539 <lneuner@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Ian Vanagas <34755028+ivanagas@users.noreply.github.com>

* Fix typos

* Bits and bobs

Co-authored-by: Ian Vanagas <34755028+ivanagas@users.noreply.github.com>

* Small tweaks

Co-authored-by: Lior539 <lneuner@gmail.com>

* missing commit

---------

Co-authored-by: PostHog <hey@posthog.com>
Co-authored-by: Lior539 <lneuner@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Ian Vanagas <34755028+ivanagas@users.noreply.github.com>

contents/blog/posthog-vs-ga4.mdx, after:

---
date: 2023-10-17
title: "In-depth: PostHog vs Google Analytics 4"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-vs-ga4/posthog-vs-ga4.jpeg
featuredImageType: full
author:
    - lior-neu-ner
category: General
tags:
    - Comparisons
---

import { ComparisonTable } from 'components/ComparisonTable'
import { ComparisonHeader } from 'components/ComparisonTable/header'
import { ComparisonRow } from 'components/ComparisonTable/row'

Want to know how PostHog and Google Analytics 4 (GA4) compare? If you remember nothing else, remember these two things:

1. **Google Analytics** is primarily designed for marketers who want to analyze landing pages, compare marketing channels, and return on ad spend.

2. **PostHog** is an all-in-one platform built to help engineers understand users and create better products. It includes analytics and a whole bunch more.

## How is PostHog different to Google Analytics?

### 1. PostHog does more than analytics

[Analytics](/product-analytics) is a core part of our platform, but it's just one component in a set of important tools for product teams. PostHog enables you to collect feedback with [surveys](/docs/surveys), understand user behavior with [session replays](/session-replay), test changes with [A/B tests](/ab-testing), and deploy changes with [feature flags](/feature-flags).

### 2. PostHog is built for engineers

We support all popular (and some unpopular) [SDKs](/docs/libraries), have [extensively documented APIs](/docs/api), and a [powerful SQL query builder](/docs/hogql), so you can analyze data how you want. We make it easy to [test in production](/product-engineers/testing-in-production), conduct [phased rollouts](/tutorials/phased-rollout), run [beta programs](/tutorials/public-beta-program), and so much more.

### 3. PostHog is open source and transparent

PostHog is built with transparency at its core. We work in the open and give full access to our [source code](https://github.com/PostHog), and enable you to [build integrations](/docs/apps/build) and [other services](/blog/how-we-built-an-app-server) on top of the product. You can even give feedback on [our public roadmap](/roadmap).

## Core features

PostHog offers a wider selection of features than GA4, which focuses solely on analytics. This makes PostHog better suited for teams who are building products.

<ComparisonTable column1="GA4" column2="PostHog">
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Analytics" description="Custom trends, funnels, and retention analysis" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Session replays" description="Watch real users use your product; diagnose bugs" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Heatmaps" description="Visualize where users click in your app or website" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Feature flags" description="Roll out features safely; toggle features for cohorts or individuals" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Surveys" description="Ask users for qualitative feedback and gather responses" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="A/B testing" description="Test changes and analyze impact" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Apps and integrations" description="Push and pull data to other destinations" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Open source" description="Full access to source code and transparent roadmap" />
</ComparisonTable>

## Analytics features

Both GA4 and PostHog offer analytics, but _what_ they offer is drastically different. 

GA4 has better features for calculating monetization and ROI on Google Ads and other marketing campaigns. This is particularly helpful for e-commerce websites. 

PostHog, on the other hand, focuses on providing insights on product and feature usage. The biggest difference is [group analytics](/docs/product-analytics/group-analytics), which enable you to track metrics at an account or company level – a feature which GA4 lacks. This makes PostHog especially useful for building B2B SaaS products.

<ComparisonTable column1="GA4" column2="PostHog">
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Group analytics" description="Track metrics at account or company level" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Monetization analytics" description="Track purchase value, LTV, and other revenue metrics" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Advertising analytics" description="Track ROI on Google Ads and other marketing campaigns" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Real-time reporting" description="Monitor activity on your site or app as it happens." />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Predictive insights" description="AI-powered alerts when metrics change" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Traffic breakdown" description="Gain insights into where your visitors and conversions are coming from" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="User profiles" description="View user demographic data such as country, language, and device type" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="UTM tracking" description="Track marketing campaigns with UTM tags" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Funnels" description="Visualize conversion rates and drop-offs" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="User paths" description="Track user flows and where they drop-off" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Retention" description="Analyze user and revenue retention" />
</ComparisonTable>

PostHog also offers the following features to help you understand how people are using your product:

<ComparisonTable column1="GA" column2="PostHog">
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Correlation analysis" description="Automatically highlight factors affecting funnel conversion rates" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Lifecycle insights" description="Break down events from new, returning, resurrecting, and dormant users" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Stickiness insights" description="See how many times users perform an event in a period of time" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Formulas" description="Use custom formulas to create unique insights" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Requires BigQuery" column2={true} feature="SQL access" description="Write your own queries in SQL" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Toolbar" description="View insights on your live website or app with an overlay" />
</ComparisonTable>

## Apps and integrations

Because PostHog is built to be your single source of truth for viewing data, it's very simple to import data from other sources. 

In contrast, it's hard to import data into GA4 because:

1. The data type and format you're allowed to [import into GA4](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/10071301) is restrictive. 
2. You either need to constantly upload CSV files manually, or set up an SFTP server to automatically do this for you.

However, GA4 is well integrated into the Google ecosystem, making it easy to transfer data between it and other Google products.

Below is a comparison of some of the most popular apps. For a full list of PostHog’s available integrations, [check our app directory](/cdp).

<ComparisonTable column1="GA" column2="PostHog">
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Zapier" description="Trigger Zaps with events" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Hubspot" description="Sync event and person data" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Salesforce" description="Sync event and person data" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Intercom" description="Extract and load data to external platforms" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Customer.io" description="Sync data between platforms" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Sentry" description="Ingest Sentry errors for analysis" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Google Ads" description="Track Google ad ROI" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Google Search Console" description="Seamlessly import data from your search console" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Google BigQuery" description="Automatically export data to BigQuery" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Google Looker Studio" description="Visualize events in Looker dashboards" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Requires 3rd party integration" column2={true} feature="Slack" description="Receive notifications about new data" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Requires 3rd party integration" column2={true} feature="Discord" description="Receive notifications about new data" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Requires 3rd party integration" column2={true} feature="MS Teams" description="Receive notifications about new data" />
</ComparisonTable>

> One unique advantage of PostHog is that, because it is open source, it’s easy to [create your own apps and integrations](/tutorials/build-your-own-posthog-app). This is useful if you’re, for example, using niche software in your stack that hasn’t been widely adopted, or if you require a direct integration between PostHog and your product. 

## Privacy, compliance, and security

PostHog makes GDPR compliance easy by letting you choose where your data is hosted: EU or US. PostHog also offers cookie-less tracking, and a variety of security options to keep your data secure. 

GA4 also offers various [privacy controls](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/9019185), but you can't choose where your data is stored.

<ComparisonTable column1="GA" column2="PostHog">
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="EU hosting available" description="" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Data anonymization" description="" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Cookie-less tracking option" description="" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="ISO 27001" column2="SOC 2" feature="Security certification" description="" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2="Feature flags only" feature="Role-based access control" description="" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="SAML/SSO available" description="" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="" description="2FA available" />
</ComparisonTable>

## Frequently asked questions 

### Does PostHog have reports, dimensions, and other GA4 features?

Yes, PostHog has much of the same functionality as Google Analytics, but much of it is named differently. Here’s a quick comparison of the two:

<div className="overflow-x-auto -mx-5 px-5">
<table className="w-full mt-4" style="min-width: 600px;">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <td><strong>GA name</strong></td>
      <td><strong>PostHog equivalent</strong></td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Report</td>
      <td>Insight</td>
      <td>Query and filter analytics data and visualize results. Types include trends, funnels, retention, and more.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Dimensions</td>
      <td>Properties</td>
      <td>Additional details added to events, persons, and groups such as location, browser, and status.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>View</td>
      <td>Dashboard</td>
      <td>A collection of insights displayed together.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Audience</td>
      <td>Persons</td>
      <td>Represents a user or set of users who create events, potentially filtered by properties or behaviors.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Segment</td>
      <td>Filter</td>
      <td>A way to create a subset of your data.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Goals and conversions</td>
      <td>Actions</td>
      <td>An event or collection of events representing a target behavior.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Client ID</td>
      <td>Distinct ID</td>
      <td>A unique identifier for a user.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Measurement ID</td>
      <td>Project API key</td>
      <td>The unique identifier for your project, used to send data to your PostHog instance.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
</div>

> Familiar with Google Analytics and want more information on how to use PostHog? We've written a [guide to PostHog for Google Analytics users](/blog/google-analytics-to-posthog).

### How much do PostHog and Google Analytics cost?

GA4 has a free tier which should be sufficient for most startups and scale-ups. Larger enterprises with higher data collection and export requirements will need to upgrade to GA360, which starts at $50,000 per year. 

A good rule of thumb is that if you're exporting more than 1 million events per day, or querying data with more than 10 million events, you'll need to upgrade to GA360 (see a full breakdown on [their website](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/11202874)). 

PostHog has transparent pricing based on the usage. It’s free to get started and completely free for the first 1 million analytics events. After this free monthly allowance, you'll pay $0.00031/event, and PostHog charges progressively less the more you use. We recommend trying [our pricing calculator](/pricing) and reading our [guide for estimating your usage](/docs/billing/estimating-usage-costs).

### Does PostHog offer a free trial?

With PostHog, you don’t need a free trial — it’s free to get started, with a generous monthly allowance of events, replays, and feature flag requests. If you’re within this allowance, PostHog is free to use forever.

### Are there discounts for nonprofits and startups?

Yes, PostHog offers both. Nonprofit organizations can contact our team and are usually eligible for a 50% discount, while startups can sign up for $50,000 of free credit (and a host of other perks) in the [PostHog for Startups program](/startups).

<ArrayCTA />
