---
date: 2022-02-21
title: A simple guide to personal data and PII
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/google-analytics-gdpr.png
featuredImageType: full
author:
  - andy-vandervell
category: General
tags:
  - Explainers
  - Privacy
---

Engineers and product managers need to be vigilant when collecting user data. Punitive GDPR fines can run to €20 million or 4% of a company's global turn (whichever is greater) and that's after the expense, time, energy, and stress generated by the legal process.

This guide will help you understand what is and isn't personal data, so you can identify what personal data you're collecting and take appropriate actions.

**Contents:**

- [What is PII?](#what-is-pii)
    - [Examples of PII](#examples-of-pii)
    - [The difference between PII and PHI](#whats-the-difference-between-pii-and-phi)
- [What is personal data?](#what-is-personal-data)
    - [Examples of personal data under the GDPR](#examples-of-personal-data-under-gdpr)
    - [What is non-personal data?](#what-is-non-personal-data)
- [PostHog and privacy compliance](#posthog-and-privacy-compliance)

## What is PII?

Personally Identifiable Information (PII) is a US legal term - it's not used in the EU's GDPR, which prefers the broader term 'personal data'. That said, if something is considered PII in the US, it's _probably_ considered personal data under the GDPR.

There is no single legal document in the US that defines PII. Instead, specific federal and state laws define what is considered PII in any given context. Helpfully, though, the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), has a definition of PII that is [widely accepted](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-122.pdf):

>_"(1) any information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity, such as name, social security number, date and place of birth, mother's maiden name, or biometric records"_

>_"(2) any other information that is linked or linkable to an individual, such as medical, educational, financial, and employment information."_

### Examples of PII

Again, we're leaning on the NIST here, which provides numerous examples of PII:

- **Names**, including an individual's full name, maiden name, mother's maiden name, or known aliases

- **Personal identification numbers**, such as such a social security number (SSN), passport number, driver‘s license, taxpayer identification number, patient identification number, and financial accounts or credit card numbers

- **Digital identifiers**, which includes but is not limited to static IP addresses, MAC addresses, and unique device identifiers (UDI)

- **Addresses and contact information**, including home addresses, email addresses, and any type of telephone number

- **Personal characteristics**, such as photos of an individual's face or other distinguishing characteristics, x-rays, fingerprints, and biometric data

- **Any other linked of linkable information**, including date of birth, place of birth, race, religion, weight, employment information, medical data, education information, financial information, and most kinds of geographical identifier.

### What's the difference between PII and PHI?

Protected Health Information (PHI) is a _type_ of PII as defined by the US HIPAA law and many of the items listed above are also examples of PHI.

PHI that's connected to individual identifiers, such as name, address, etc.,  must be treated with extreme care under HIPAA. Penalties for breaches include fines and even jail time in extreme cases.

If HIPAA compliance is a concern for your business, read our guide to the [best HIPAA-compliant analytics tools](/blog/best-hipaa-compliant-analytics-tools). And, in case you were wondering, [Google Analytics is not HIPAA compliant](/blog/is-google-analytics-hipaa-compliant).

## What is personal data?

Under the GPDR, 'personal data' is defined as any information which:

1. Identifies a 'data subject' directly
2. Can be used to identify a 'data subject' when combined with other information

This second point is what makes the GDPR powerful, or troublesome depending on your point of view. The GDPR anticipates, and seeks to prevent, organizations from combining data in order to circumvent its provisions.

Also, note the use of "data subject" here. It's deliberate. You don't even need to know an individual's name for them to be identified. Any kind of digital profile counts, even if the profile doesn't include a name.

Of course, any time you're collecting personal data, consent is required: hence cookie consent notices on websites.

### Examples of personal data under GDPR

Names, identification numbers, location data and plenty more besides qualifies as personal data under the GDPR, but there is no official list of what the regulation considers personal data. Common sense prevails, though, and certainly everything in our list of PII examples applies to the GDPR.

The GDPR does, however, define 'special categories of personal data' that are subject to additional protections. These include:

- race
- ethnic origin
- political opinions
- religious or philosophical beliefs
- trade union membership
- genetic data
- biometric data (where this is used for identification purposes)
- health data
- sex life
- sexual orientation

Collecting this data requires "explicit consent" and must be justifiable under relevant local laws and under the GDPR. The UK Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) has a [useful guide summarizing the requirements](https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/guide-to-data-protection/guide-to-the-general-data-protection-regulation-gdpr/lawful-basis-for-processing/special-category-data/).

### What is non-personal data?

It's also useful to understand what _isn't_ considered personal data under the GDPR. Here are a few examples:

- Personal data that has been successfully anonymized
- Generalized data, such age ranges
- Partially or fully-masked IP addresses
- Data not originating from an identifiable individual

The European Commission published [guidance on the free flow of non-personal data](https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/MEMO_19_2750) in relation to the GDPR in May, 2019. It stresses that mixed data sets of personal and non-personal data **doesn't** have to be processed separately, but when combined the GDPR fully applies even when "personal data represents only a small part of the dataset".

## PostHog and privacy compliance

PostHog offers EU hosting for GDPR compliance and a Business Associate Agreement (BAA) is available for companies who need to comply with HIPAA.

Read our [privacy compliance documentation](/docs/privacy), which covers the [GDPR](/docs/privacy/gdpr-compliance), [HIPAA](/docs/privacy/hipaa-compliance) and [CCPA](/docs/privacy/ccpa-compliance) for more information on how to deploy PostHog in a privacy-compliant manner.

<ArrayCTA />
