contents/docs/cdp/batch-exports/s3.md, before:

---
title: S3 Destination for batch exports
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
availability:
    free: full
    selfServe: full
    enterprise: full
---

With batch exports, data can be exported to an S3 bucket.

## Creating the batch export

1. Navigate to the exports page in your PostHog instance (Quick links if you use [PostHog Cloud US](https://app.posthog.com/batch_exports) or [PostHog Cloud EU](https://eu.posthog.com/batch_exports)).
2. Click "Create export workflow".
3. Select **S3** as the batch export type.
4. Fill in the necessary [configuration details](#s3-configuration).
5. Finalize the creation by clicking on "Create".
5. Done! The batch export will schedule its first run on the start of the next period.

## S3 configuration

Configuring a batch export targeting S3 requires the following S3-specific configuration values:
* **Bucket name:** The name of the S3 bucket where the data is to be exported.
* **Region:** The AWS region where the bucket is located.
* **Key prefix:** A key prefix to use for each S3 object created. This key can include [template variables](#s3-key-prefix-template-variables)
* **Compression:** Select a compression method (like gzip) to use for exported files or no compression.
* **Encryption:** Select a server-side encryption method (`AES256` or `aws:kms`) for AWS to encrypt data at rest.
* **AWS Access Key ID:** An AWS access key ID with access to the S3 bucket.
* **AWS Secret Access Key:** An AWS secret access key with access to the S3 bucket.
* **AWS KMS Key ID:** The AWS KMS Key ID to use for server-side encryption. Only required when selecting `aws:kms` encryption.
* **Events to exclude:** A list of events to omit from the exported data.

### S3 key prefix template variables

The key prefix provided for data exporting can include template variables which are formatted at runtime. All template variables are defined between curly brackets (for example `{day}`). This allows you partition files in your S3 bucket, such as by date.

Template variables include:
* Date and time variables:
  * `year`.
  * `month`.
  * `day`.
  * `hour`.
  * `minute`.
  * `second`.
* Name of the table exported (for now, only "events"):
  * `table`.
* Batch export data bounds:
  * `data_interval_start`.
  * `data_interval_end`.

So, as an example, setting `{year}-{month}-{day}_{table}/` as a key prefix, will produce files prefixed with keys like `2023-07-28_events/`.

### S3 file formats

PostHog batch exports for S3 export data in [JSON lines](https://jsonlines.org/) format. We intend to add support for other common formats like CSV and Parquet. You can follow the [roadmap](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/issues/15997) for updates on this and other features.

Commit message:

Docs: Add data pipeline add-on requirement (#7706)
* data pipeline add on

contents/docs/cdp/batch-exports/s3.md, after:

---
title: S3 Destination for batch exports
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
availability:
    free: full
    selfServe: full
    enterprise: full
---

With batch exports, data can be exported to an S3 bucket.

## Creating the batch export

1. Subscribe to data pipelines add-on in [your billing settings](https://us.posthog.com/organization/billing) if you haven't already.
2. Click on [data pipeline](https://us.posthog.com/apps) in the sidebar and go to the exports tab in your PostHog instance.
3. Click "Create export workflow".
4. Select **S3** as the batch export type.
5. Fill in the necessary [configuration details](#s3-configuration).
6. Finalize the creation by clicking on "Create".
7. Done! The batch export will schedule its first run on the start of the next period.

## S3 configuration

Configuring a batch export targeting S3 requires the following S3-specific configuration values:
* **Bucket name:** The name of the S3 bucket where the data is to be exported.
* **Region:** The AWS region where the bucket is located.
* **Key prefix:** A key prefix to use for each S3 object created. This key can include [template variables](#s3-key-prefix-template-variables)
* **Compression:** Select a compression method (like gzip) to use for exported files or no compression.
* **Encryption:** Select a server-side encryption method (`AES256` or `aws:kms`) for AWS to encrypt data at rest.
* **AWS Access Key ID:** An AWS access key ID with access to the S3 bucket.
* **AWS Secret Access Key:** An AWS secret access key with access to the S3 bucket.
* **AWS KMS Key ID:** The AWS KMS Key ID to use for server-side encryption. Only required when selecting `aws:kms` encryption.
* **Events to exclude:** A list of events to omit from the exported data.

### S3 key prefix template variables

The key prefix provided for data exporting can include template variables which are formatted at runtime. All template variables are defined between curly brackets (for example `{day}`). This allows you partition files in your S3 bucket, such as by date.

Template variables include:
* Date and time variables:
  * `year`.
  * `month`.
  * `day`.
  * `hour`.
  * `minute`.
  * `second`.
* Name of the table exported (for now, only "events"):
  * `table`.
* Batch export data bounds:
  * `data_interval_start`.
  * `data_interval_end`.

So, as an example, setting `{year}-{month}-{day}_{table}/` as a key prefix, will produce files prefixed with keys like `2023-07-28_events/`.

### S3 file formats

PostHog batch exports for S3 export data in [JSON lines](https://jsonlines.org/) format. We intend to add support for other common formats like CSV and Parquet. You can follow the [roadmap](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/issues/15997) for updates on this and other features.
