contents/docs/data/persons.mdx, before:

---
title: Persons
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
availability:
    free: full
    selfServe: full
    enterprise: full

---

PostHog tracks user behaviour, whether or not the user is logged in and identifiable.

## Viewing user list

Click on 'Persons & Groups' on the left-hand navigation. This will open a list containing all users, which you can then search.

If you have added properties to your users (e.g. email), these will also appear here.

Clicking the arrows next to the user will expand and show all of that user's properties.

## User history

Clicking on an individual person brings up their entire event history, as well as their properties.

You can go even deeper by inspecting each event individually. Clicking on the event will bring up all the event properties.

## Deleting person data

-   Select 'Persons & Groups' from the left-hand menu
-   Search for the person via their unique ID. For example, their email
-   Click on the person's ID
-   Click 'Delete person' to remove them and all their associated data from the PostHog instance. You will be prompted to confirm this action.

## Deleting person data with the API

You can also delete persons data via the API. See the [Data Deletion docs](/docs/privacy/data-deletion) for more information.

Commit message:

Product OS docs refresh (#7800)
* Product OS docs refresh

* A whole bunch of updates

* More stuff

* Update index.mdx

* Improving persons doc

* Changes based on feedback

* Folder name change

* Fixing URL typo

* typo

* Ian's suggestions

Co-authored-by: Ian Vanagas <34755028+ivanagas@users.noreply.github.com>

* Adding apps files back and other bits

* Removing redirects

* Change to sidebar

* remove periods from fragments

* alphabetize

* used productscreenshot component in a couple places

---------

Co-authored-by: Ian Vanagas <34755028+ivanagas@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Cory Watilo <cww@watilo.com>

contents/docs/data/persons.mdx, after:

---
title: People
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
availability:
    free: full
    selfServe: full
    enterprise: full

---

import PersonProfile from '../../images/docs/data/people/people-profile.png'

Clicking on [People](https://us.posthog.com/persons) in the left-hand navigation opens a list containing all users, which you can then search.

All users have a alphanumeric ID. Identified users have a distinct ID, normally `email`.

PostHog tracks user behavior, whether or not the user is logged in and identifiable.

## Person profiles

Clicking on a user opens their profile and shows all their properties.

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight={PersonProfile}
    alt="Person profile" 
    classes="rounded"
/>

- **Events** shows all the events a user has triggered, which you can search and filter to find specific events.

- **Recordings** shows all session replays a user has generated. Note this is subject to the retention policy of your plan, so users who haven't been active recently may have none.

- **Cohorts** shows all the cohorts a user belongs to.

- **Related groups:** shows groups (e.g. organizations, projects, and instances) a user belongs to.

- **Feature flags:** shows all feature flags that are enabled for a user.

- **History:** shows any manual changes that have been made to the user's profile.

## Deleting person data

- Select 'Persons' from the left-hand menu
- Search for the person via their unique ID. For example, their email
- Click on the person's ID
- Click 'Delete person' to remove them and all their associated data from the PostHog instance. You will be prompted to confirm this action.

## Deleting person data with the API

You can also delete persons data via the API. See the [Data Deletion docs](/docs/privacy/data-deletion) for more information.
