contents/docs/libraries/ruby/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Ruby
sidebarTitle: Ruby
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
github: https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-ruby
icon: ../../../images/docs/integrate/ruby.svg
features:
    eventCapture: true
    userIdentification: true
    autoCapture: false
    sessionRecording: false
    featureFlags: true
    groupAnalytics: true
---

The `posthog-ruby` library provides tracking functionality on the server-side for applications built in Ruby.

It uses an internal queue to make calls fast and non-blocking. It also batches requests and flushes asynchronously, making it perfect to use in any part of your web app or other server-side application that needs performance.

## Installation

import RubyInstall from '../../integrate/_snippets/install-ruby.mdx'

<RubyInstall />

### Debug logging

The log level by default is set to WARN. You can change it to DEBUG if you want to debug the client by running `posthog.logger.level = Logger::DEBUG`, where `posthog` is your initialized `PostHog::Client` instance.

## Capturing events

import RubySendEvents from '../../integrate/send-events/_snippets/send-events-ruby.mdx'

<RubySendEvents />

## Setting user properties

To set [user properties](/docs/data/user-properties), include the properties you'd like to set when capturing an event: 

```php
posthog.capture({
    distinct_id: 'distinct_id',
    event: 'event_name',
    properties: {
        '$set': { name: 'Max Hedgehog' },
        '$set_once': { initial_url: '/blog' }
    }
})
```

For more details on the difference between `$set` and `$set_once`, see our [user properties docs](/docs/data/user-properties#what-is-the-difference-between-set-and-set_once).

## Alias

Sometimes, you may want to assign multiple distinct IDs to a single user. This is helpful in scenarios where your primary distinct ID may be inaccessible. For example, if a distinct ID which is typically used on the frontend is not available in certain parts of your backend code. In this case, you can use `alias` to assign another distinct ID to the same user.

We strongly recommend reading our docs on [alias](/docs/data/identify#alias-assigning-multiple-distinct-ids-to-the-same-user) to best understand how to correctly use this method.

## Feature flags

import FeatureFlagsLibsIntro from "../_snippets/feature-flags-libs-intro.mdx"

<FeatureFlagsLibsIntro />

import RubyFeatureFlagsCode from '../../integrate/feature-flags-code/_snippets/feature-flags-code-ruby.mdx'

<RubyFeatureFlagsCode />

### Local Evaluation

import LocalEvaluationIntro from "../../feature-flags/snippets/local-evaluation-intro.mdx"

<LocalEvaluationIntro />

For details on how to implement local evaluation, see our [local evaluation guide](/docs/feature-flags/local-evaluation).

#### Evaluating feature flags locally in unicorn server

If you have `preload_app true` in your unicorn config, you can use the [`after_fork`](https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/unicorn/Unicorn%2FConfigurator:after_fork) hook (which is part of the unicorn's configuration) to enable the feature flag cache to receive the updates from posthog dashboard.

```ruby
after_fork do |server, worker|
  $posthog = PostHog::Client.new(
    api_key: '<ph_project_api_key>',
    personal_api_key: '<ph_personal_api_key>'
    host: '<ph_instance_address>',
    on_error: Proc.new { |status, msg| print msg }
  )
end
```

## Experiments (A/B tests)

Since [experiments](/docs/experiments/manual) use feature flags, the code for running an experiment is very similar to the feature flags code:

```ruby
variant = posthog.get_feature_flag('experiment-feature-flag-key', 'user_distinct_id')

if variant == 'variant-name'
    # Do something 
end
```

It's also possible to [run experiments without using feature flags](/docs/experiments/running-experiments-without-feature-flags).

## Group analytics

Group analytics allows you to associate an event with a group (e.g. teams, organizations, etc.). Read the [Group Analytics](/docs/user-guides/group-analytics) guide for more information.

> **Note: ** This is a paid feature and is not available on the open-source or free cloud plan. Learn more [here](/pricing).

-   Capture an event and associate it with a group

```ruby
posthog.capture({
    distinct_id: 'distinct_id_of_the_user',
    event: 'movie_played',
    properties: {
        movie_id: '123',
        category: 'romcom'
    }
    groups: {
        'company': 'company_id_in_your_db'
    }
})
```

-   Update properties on a group

```ruby
posthog.group_identify(
  {
    group_type: "company",
    group_key: "company_id_in_your_db",
    properties: {
      name: "Awesome Inc."
    }
  }
)
```

The `name` is a special property which is used in the PostHog UI for the name of the Group. If you don't specify a `name` property, the group ID will be used instead.

## Thank you

This library is largely based on the `analytics-ruby` package.

Commit message:

Update information about using puma as a web server (#7506)
* Update information about using puma as a web server

---------

Co-authored-by: Ian Vanagas <34755028+ivanagas@users.noreply.github.com>

contents/docs/libraries/ruby/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Ruby
sidebarTitle: Ruby
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
github: https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-ruby
icon: ../../../images/docs/integrate/ruby.svg
features:
    eventCapture: true
    userIdentification: true
    autoCapture: false
    sessionRecording: false
    featureFlags: true
    groupAnalytics: true
---

The `posthog-ruby` library provides tracking functionality on the server-side for applications built in Ruby.

It uses an internal queue to make calls fast and non-blocking. It also batches requests and flushes asynchronously, making it perfect to use in any part of your web app or other server-side application that needs performance.

## Installation

import RubyInstall from '../../integrate/_snippets/install-ruby.mdx'

<RubyInstall />

### Debug logging

The log level by default is set to WARN. You can change it to DEBUG if you want to debug the client by running `posthog.logger.level = Logger::DEBUG`, where `posthog` is your initialized `PostHog::Client` instance.

## Capturing events

import RubySendEvents from '../../integrate/send-events/_snippets/send-events-ruby.mdx'

<RubySendEvents />

## Setting user properties

To set [user properties](/docs/data/user-properties), include the properties you'd like to set when capturing an event: 

```ruby
posthog.capture({
    distinct_id: 'distinct_id',
    event: 'event_name',
    properties: {
        '$set': { name: 'Max Hedgehog' },
        '$set_once': { initial_url: '/blog' }
    }
})
```

For more details on the difference between `$set` and `$set_once`, see our [user properties docs](/docs/data/user-properties#what-is-the-difference-between-set-and-set_once).

## Alias

Sometimes, you may want to assign multiple distinct IDs to a single user. This is helpful in scenarios where your primary distinct ID may be inaccessible. For example, if a distinct ID which is typically used on the frontend is not available in certain parts of your backend code. In this case, you can use `alias` to assign another distinct ID to the same user.

We strongly recommend reading our docs on [alias](/docs/data/identify#alias-assigning-multiple-distinct-ids-to-the-same-user) to best understand how to correctly use this method.

## Feature flags

import FeatureFlagsLibsIntro from "../_snippets/feature-flags-libs-intro.mdx"

<FeatureFlagsLibsIntro />

import RubyFeatureFlagsCode from '../../integrate/feature-flags-code/_snippets/feature-flags-code-ruby.mdx'

<RubyFeatureFlagsCode />

### Local Evaluation

import LocalEvaluationIntro from "../../feature-flags/snippets/local-evaluation-intro.mdx"

<LocalEvaluationIntro />

For details on how to implement local evaluation, see our [local evaluation guide](/docs/feature-flags/local-evaluation).

#### Evaluating feature flags locally in unicorn server

If you have `preload_app true` in your unicorn config, you can use the [`after_fork`](https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/unicorn/Unicorn%2FConfigurator:after_fork) hook (which is part of the unicorn's configuration) to enable the feature flag cache to receive the updates from posthog dashboard.

```ruby
after_fork do |server, worker|
  $posthog = PostHog::Client.new(
    api_key: '<ph_project_api_key>',
    personal_api_key: '<ph_personal_api_key>'
    host: '<ph_instance_address>',
    on_error: Proc.new { |status, msg| print msg }
  )
end
```

#### Evaluating feature flags locally in a Puma server

If you use Puma with multiple workers, you can use the `on_worker_boot` hook (which is part of the Puma's configuration) to enable the feature flag cache to receive the updates from PostHog.

```ruby
on_worker_boot do
  $posthog = PostHog::Client.new(
    api_key: '<ph_project_api_key>',
    personal_api_key: '<ph_personal_api_key>'
    host: '<ph_instance_address>',
    on_error: Proc.new { |status, msg| print msg }
  )
end

## Experiments (A/B tests)

Since [experiments](/docs/experiments/manual) use feature flags, the code for running an experiment is very similar to the feature flags code:

```ruby
variant = posthog.get_feature_flag('experiment-feature-flag-key', 'user_distinct_id')

if variant == 'variant-name'
    # Do something 
end
```

It's also possible to [run experiments without using feature flags](/docs/experiments/running-experiments-without-feature-flags).

## Group analytics

Group analytics allows you to associate an event with a group (e.g. teams, organizations, etc.). Read the [Group Analytics](/docs/user-guides/group-analytics) guide for more information.

> **Note: ** This is a paid feature and is not available on the open-source or free cloud plan. Learn more [here](/pricing).

-   Capture an event and associate it with a group

```ruby
posthog.capture({
    distinct_id: 'distinct_id_of_the_user',
    event: 'movie_played',
    properties: {
        movie_id: '123',
        category: 'romcom'
    }
    groups: {
        'company': 'company_id_in_your_db'
    }
})
```

-   Update properties on a group

```ruby
posthog.group_identify(
  {
    group_type: "company",
    group_key: "company_id_in_your_db",
    properties: {
      name: "Awesome Inc."
    }
  }
)
```

The `name` is a special property which is used in the PostHog UI for the name of the Group. If you don't specify a `name` property, the group ID will be used instead.

## Thank you

This library is largely based on the `analytics-ruby` package.
