.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/blog-post-idea-template.md, before:

---
name: New article idea
about: Share your idea for a new article
title: "{title}"
labels: content
assignees: andyvan-ph

---

## Summary

> _explain the idea in a sentence or two_

## Where will it be published?

> _select any that apply_

- [ ] Blog
- [ ] Founders Hub
- [ ] Newsletter
- [ ] Product engineers Hub
- [ ] Tutorials
- [ ] Other (please specify)

## Why type of article is this?

> _select any that apply_

- [ ] High intent (i.e. comparisons and similar)
- [ ] Brand / opinionated (how we work and why, etc.)
- [ ] High-level guide (concepts, frameworks, ideas, etc.)
- [ ] Low-level guide (step-by-step guide / tutorial)
- [ ] Other (please specify)

## Who is the primary audience?

> _select any that apply_

- [ ] Existing PostHog users
- [ ] Potential PostHog users
- [ ] Engineers
- [ ] Non-engineers
- [ ] Other (please specify)

## What (if any) keywords are we targeting?

> _list any that apply_

## Headline options

> _suggest a few angles_

## Will it need custom art?

- [ ] Yes
- [ ] No

## Outline (optional)

> _draft headings / questions you want to answer_

Commit message:

Update blog-post-idea-template.md (#7562)

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/blog-post-idea-template.md, after:

---
name: New article idea
about: Share your idea for a new article
title: "{title}"
labels: content
assignees: andyvan-ph

---

## Summary

> _Write a short paragraph on what this article is about. If applicable, what's the opinion or point we want to make in this article?_

## Where will it be published?

> _select any that apply_

- [ ] Blog
- [ ] Founders Hub
- [ ] Newsletter
- [ ] Product engineers Hub
- [ ] Tutorials
- [ ] Other (please specify)

## Why type of article is this?

> _select any that apply_

- [ ] High intent (i.e. comparisons and similar)
- [ ] Brand / opinionated (how we work and why, etc.)
- [ ] High-level guide (concepts, frameworks, ideas, etc.)
- [ ] Low-level guide (step-by-step guide / tutorial)
- [ ] Other (please specify)

## Who is the primary audience?

> _Select any that apply_

- [ ] Founders
- [ ] Engineers
- [ ] Growth
- [ ] Marketing
- [ ] HackerNews
- [ ] Existing PostHog users
- [ ] Potential PostHog users

## What (if any) keywords are we targeting?

> _list any that apply_

## Headline options

> _suggest a few angles_

## Will it need custom art?

- [ ] Yes
- [ ] No

## Outline (optional)

> _draft headings / questions you want to answer_
