contents/docs/cdp/event-sequence-timer.md, before:

---
title: Event Sequence Timer
github: https://github.com/PostHog/event-sequence-timer-plugin
installUrl: https://app.posthog.com/project/apps?name=Event%20Sequence%20Timer%20Plugin
thumbnail: ../../cdp/thumbnails/event-sequence-timer-plugin.png
tags:
    - event-timer
---

> 🚧 **Note:** We are currently in the process of reworking our app server and have therefore **disabled new installs of the event sequence timer.** You can still analyze the timing of event sequences using [HogQL](/docs/hogql).

For example, to get the average time between a `$pageview` and `$pageleave` events this year, [create an SQL insight](https://app.posthog.com/insights/new) and use the following SQL statement:

```sql
SELECT avg(time_between) AS avg_time_between
FROM (
  SELECT
    dateDiff('minute', first_timestamp, next_timestamp) AS time_between
  FROM (
    SELECT 
      distinct_id,
      event AS first_event,
      timestamp AS first_timestamp,
      first_value(event) OVER w AS next_event,
      first_value(timestamp) OVER w AS next_timestamp
    FROM events
    WHERE 
      toYear(timestamp) = 2023
      AND (event = '$pageview' OR event = '$pageleave')
    WINDOW w AS (PARTITION BY distinct_id ORDER BY timestamp ASC ROWS BETWEEN 1 FOLLOWING AND 1 FOLLOWING)
    ORDER BY distinct_id, timestamp
  ) AS subquery
  WHERE first_event = '$pageview'
    AND next_event = '$pageleave'
)
```

This can be customized with different events or properties. See an example use case in our “[How to calculate time on page](/tutorials/time-on-page)” tutorial.

If there is functionality around event sequence timing you want but don’t see a way to do, let us know by asking a question in [our community](/questions).

## What does this app do?

This app measures the time it takes for a user to perform one event (`EventB`), after an earlier event (`EventA`).

## Requirements

The Event Sequence Timer requires either PostHog Cloud, or a self-hosted PostHog instance running [version 1.30.0](https://posthog.com/blog/the-posthog-array-1-30-0) or later.

Not running 1.30.0? Find out [how to update your self-hosted PostHog deployment](https://posthog.com/docs/runbook/upgrading-posthog)!

## Installation

1. Visit the 'Apps' page in your instance of PostHog.
2. Search for 'Event Sequence Timer' and select the app, press Install.
3. Follow the on-screen steps to configure the app.

## Configuration

First, you must configure the list of events to track time differences on. This list is specified as follows:

`(eventA,eventB),(eventC,eventD),(eventA,eventD)`

Where the first event in a tuple is the event that "starts the timer" and the second event being the one that "finishes it". In other words, the first event happens before the second.

You can further configure the app using the 'Update timestamp on every new first event?' setting. The default behaviour is 'Yes'.

If you select 'Yes', the stored timestamp for the first event will always be updated when a new event with the same name comes in (for the same user). This means your second event will always contain the difference between its time and the last time the user triggered the first event.

If you select No, the stored timestamp will only be set once and never updated. This means you will get the difference between the time of the second event and the first time the user triggered the first event.

## How does the Event Sequence Timer show elapsed time?

The Event Sequence Timer app measures time between two events (`EventA` and `EventB`) in milliseconds.

When a sequence is completed, the Event Sequence Timer adds a new property called `time_since_eventA` to `EventB`. You can then use this property in analysis with other PostHog apps.

## Parameters

<AppParameters />

## FAQ

### Is the source code for this app available?

PostHog is open-source and so are all apps on the platform. The [source code for the Event Sequence Timer](https://github.com/PostHog/event-sequence-timer-plugin) is available on GitHub.

### Who created this app?

We'd like to thank PostHog team member [Yakko Majuri](https://github.com/yakkomajuri) for creating the Event Sequence Timer. Thanks Yakko!

### Who maintains this app?

This app is maintained by PostHog. If you have issues with the app not functioning as intended, please [let us know](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)!

### What if I have feedback on this app?

We love feature requests and feedback! Please [tell us what you think](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)! to tell us what you think.

### What if my question isn't answered above?

We love answering questions. Ask us anything via [our community forum](/questions), or [drop us a message](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal).

Commit message:

add pipeline links in all apps

contents/docs/cdp/event-sequence-timer.md, after:

---
title: Event Sequence Timer
github: https://github.com/PostHog/event-sequence-timer-plugin
installUrl: https://app.posthog.com/project/apps?name=Event%20Sequence%20Timer%20Plugin
thumbnail: ../../cdp/thumbnails/event-sequence-timer-plugin.png
tags:
    - event-timer
---

> 🚧 **Note:** We are currently in the process of reworking our app server and have therefore **disabled new installs of the event sequence timer.** You can still analyze the timing of event sequences using [HogQL](/docs/hogql).

For example, to get the average time between a `$pageview` and `$pageleave` events this year, [create an SQL insight](https://app.posthog.com/insights/new) and use the following SQL statement:

```sql
SELECT avg(time_between) AS avg_time_between
FROM (
  SELECT
    dateDiff('minute', first_timestamp, next_timestamp) AS time_between
  FROM (
    SELECT 
      distinct_id,
      event AS first_event,
      timestamp AS first_timestamp,
      first_value(event) OVER w AS next_event,
      first_value(timestamp) OVER w AS next_timestamp
    FROM events
    WHERE 
      toYear(timestamp) = 2023
      AND (event = '$pageview' OR event = '$pageleave')
    WINDOW w AS (PARTITION BY distinct_id ORDER BY timestamp ASC ROWS BETWEEN 1 FOLLOWING AND 1 FOLLOWING)
    ORDER BY distinct_id, timestamp
  ) AS subquery
  WHERE first_event = '$pageview'
    AND next_event = '$pageleave'
)
```

This can be customized with different events or properties. See an example use case in our “[How to calculate time on page](/tutorials/time-on-page)” tutorial.

If there is functionality around event sequence timing you want but don’t see a way to do, let us know by asking a question in [our community](/questions).

## What does this app do?

This app measures the time it takes for a user to perform one event (`EventB`), after an earlier event (`EventA`).

## Requirements

The Event Sequence Timer requires either PostHog Cloud, or a self-hosted PostHog instance running [version 1.30.0](https://posthog.com/blog/the-posthog-array-1-30-0) or later.

Not running 1.30.0? Find out [how to update your self-hosted PostHog deployment](https://posthog.com/docs/runbook/upgrading-posthog)!

## Installation

1. In PostHog, click the "[Data pipeline](https://us.posthog.com/apps)" tab in the left sidebar.
2. Search for 'Event Sequence Timer' and select the app, press Install.
3. Follow the on-screen steps to configure the app.

## Configuration

First, you must configure the list of events to track time differences on. This list is specified as follows:

`(eventA,eventB),(eventC,eventD),(eventA,eventD)`

Where the first event in a tuple is the event that "starts the timer" and the second event being the one that "finishes it". In other words, the first event happens before the second.

You can further configure the app using the 'Update timestamp on every new first event?' setting. The default behaviour is 'Yes'.

If you select 'Yes', the stored timestamp for the first event will always be updated when a new event with the same name comes in (for the same user). This means your second event will always contain the difference between its time and the last time the user triggered the first event.

If you select No, the stored timestamp will only be set once and never updated. This means you will get the difference between the time of the second event and the first time the user triggered the first event.

## How does the Event Sequence Timer show elapsed time?

The Event Sequence Timer app measures time between two events (`EventA` and `EventB`) in milliseconds.

When a sequence is completed, the Event Sequence Timer adds a new property called `time_since_eventA` to `EventB`. You can then use this property in analysis with other PostHog apps.

## Parameters

<AppParameters />

## FAQ

### Is the source code for this app available?

PostHog is open-source and so are all apps on the platform. The [source code for the Event Sequence Timer](https://github.com/PostHog/event-sequence-timer-plugin) is available on GitHub.

### Who created this app?

We'd like to thank PostHog team member [Yakko Majuri](https://github.com/yakkomajuri) for creating the Event Sequence Timer. Thanks Yakko!

### Who maintains this app?

This app is maintained by PostHog. If you have issues with the app not functioning as intended, please [let us know](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)!

### What if I have feedback on this app?

We love feature requests and feedback! Please [tell us what you think](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)! to tell us what you think.

### What if my question isn't answered above?

We love answering questions. Ask us anything via [our community forum](/questions), or [drop us a message](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal).
