contents/docs/cdp/hubspot-connector.md, before:

---
title: Hubspot
github: https://github.com/PostHog/hubspot-plugin
installUrl: https://app.posthog.com/project/apps?name=Hubspot
thumbnail: ../../cdp/thumbnails/hubspot.svg
tags:
    - hubspot
---

Send data from PostHog to Hubspot whenever an `$identify` event occurs. That is, whenever PostHog successfully identifies a user. This is useful for syncing customer information between both PostHog and Hubspot.

## Requirements

This requires either PostHog Cloud, or a self-hosted PostHog instance running [version 1.30.0](https://posthog.com/blog/the-posthog-array-1-30-0) or later.

Not running 1.30.0? Find out [how to update your self-hosted PostHog deployment](https://posthog.com/docs/runbook/upgrading-posthog)!

You'll also need a Hubspot account to connect to.

## What information can I push to Hubspot from PostHog?

Currently, this integration supports sending the following data to Hubspot:

-   Email addresses
-   First names
-   Last names
-   Phone numbers
-   Company names
-   Company website URLs

This information can be sent whenever an `$identify` event occurs in PostHog.

No other information can currently be sent to PostHog using this app. If this app exists in a chain where the above information would be filtered out (for example, by using the Property Filter app) then filtered information cannot be sent to Hubspot.

## Configuration

<AppParameters />

## FAQ

### How do I install the Hubspot app on PostHog?

1. Log in to your PostHog instance
2. Click 'Apps' on the left-hand tool bar
3. Search for 'Hubspot'
4. Select the app, press 'Install' and follow the on-screen instructions

### Is the source code for this app available?

PostHog is open-source and so are all apps on the platform. The [source code](https://github.com/PostHog/hubspot-plugin) is available on GitHub.

### Who created this app?

A lot of people contributed to this app! We'd like to thank...

-   [Kunal](https://github.com/kpthatsme)
-   [Yakko Majuri](https://github.com/yakkomajuri)
-   [Marcus Hyett](https://github.com/marcushyett-ph)
-   [Marius Andra](https://github.com/mariusandra)
-   [Joe Martin](https://github.com/joethreepwood)
-   [Paul D'Ambra](https://github.com/pauldambra) and
-   [OneshotEngineering](https://github.com/oneshot-engineering)

For creating this. Thanks, all!

### Who maintains this app?

This app is maintained by PostHog. If you have issues with the app not functioning as intended, please [let us know](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)!

### What if I have feedback on this app?

We love feature requests and feedback! Please [tell us what you think](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)! to tell us what you think.

### What if my question isn't answered above?

We love answering questions. Ask us anything via [our community forum](/questions), or [drop us a message](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal).

Commit message:

Docs: Add data pipeline add-on requirement (#7706)
* data pipeline add on

contents/docs/cdp/hubspot-connector.md, after:

---
title: Hubspot
github: https://github.com/PostHog/hubspot-plugin
installUrl: https://app.posthog.com/project/apps?name=Hubspot
thumbnail: ../../cdp/thumbnails/hubspot.svg
tags:
    - hubspot
---

Send data from PostHog to Hubspot whenever an `$identify` event occurs. That is, whenever PostHog successfully identifies a user. This is useful for syncing customer information between both PostHog and Hubspot.

## Requirements

This requires either PostHog Cloud with the [data pipeline add-on](https://us.posthog.com/organization/billing), or a self-hosted PostHog instance running [version 1.30.0](https://posthog.com/blog/the-posthog-array-1-30-0) or later.

Not running 1.30.0? Find out [how to update your self-hosted PostHog deployment](https://posthog.com/docs/runbook/upgrading-posthog)!

You'll also need a Hubspot account to connect to.

## What information can I push to Hubspot from PostHog?

Currently, this integration supports sending the following data to Hubspot:

-   Email addresses
-   First names
-   Last names
-   Phone numbers
-   Company names
-   Company website URLs

This information can be sent whenever an `$identify` event occurs in PostHog.

No other information can currently be sent to PostHog using this app. If this app exists in a chain where the above information would be filtered out (for example, by using the Property Filter app) then filtered information cannot be sent to Hubspot.

## Configuration

<AppParameters />

## FAQ

### How do I install the Hubspot app on PostHog?

1. Log in to your PostHog instance
2. Click 'Apps' on the left-hand tool bar
3. Search for 'Hubspot'
4. Select the app, press 'Install' and follow the on-screen instructions

### Is the source code for this app available?

PostHog is open-source and so are all apps on the platform. The [source code](https://github.com/PostHog/hubspot-plugin) is available on GitHub.

### Who created this app?

A lot of people contributed to this app! We'd like to thank...

-   [Kunal](https://github.com/kpthatsme)
-   [Yakko Majuri](https://github.com/yakkomajuri)
-   [Marcus Hyett](https://github.com/marcushyett-ph)
-   [Marius Andra](https://github.com/mariusandra)
-   [Joe Martin](https://github.com/joethreepwood)
-   [Paul D'Ambra](https://github.com/pauldambra) and
-   [OneshotEngineering](https://github.com/oneshot-engineering)

For creating this. Thanks, all!

### Who maintains this app?

This app is maintained by PostHog. If you have issues with the app not functioning as intended, please [let us know](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)!

### What if I have feedback on this app?

We love feature requests and feedback! Please [tell us what you think](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)! to tell us what you think.

### What if my question isn't answered above?

We love answering questions. Ask us anything via [our community forum](/questions), or [drop us a message](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal).
