contents/docs/cdp/patterns-connector.md, before:

---
title: Patterns
layout: app
github: https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-patterns-app
installUrl: https://app.posthog.com/project/apps?name=Patterns
thumbnail: ../../cdp/thumbnails/patterns-logo.svg
tags:
    - patterns
---

Send event data from PostHog, to Patterns. This is useful for a number of reasons, including centralizing data into a CDP, or using it to generate customer models.

Patterns is a data science platform for building and deploying data pipelines, machine learning models, and complex automations. It’s built for data engineers, scientists, and analysts and abstracts away the overhead associated with setting up data infrastructure and having to configure many different tools. At the core is the Patterns protocol, a functional reactive declarative data pipelining framework that makes it easy to chain together Python and SQL scripts.

Use Patterns with PostHog to calculate metrics such as cohort churn, retention and customer LTV. Or, integrate your PostHog data with other sources such as your marketing data, email marketing tools, payment and billing systems.

## Requirements

This requires either PostHog Cloud, or a self-hosted PostHog instance running [version 1.30.0](https://posthog.com/blog/the-posthog-array-1-30-0) or later.

Not running 1.30.0? Find out [how to update your self-hosted PostHog deployment](https://posthog.com/docs/self-host/configure/upgrading-posthog)!

You'll also need an account with [Patterns](https://www.patterns.app/).

## Installation

This app requires PostHog 1.30.0 or above, or PostHog Cloud. You also need a Patterns account. 

1. Log in to your Patterns account and create a graph 
2. Add a webhook node to your graph
3. Copy the webhook URL from the sidebar
4. Log in to your PostHog instance
5. Click 'Apps' on the left-hand tool bar
6. Search for 'Patterns'
7. Select the app, press 'Install', then select the blue gear icon to begin configuration
8. Paste the URL in "Patterns Webhook URL" during app configuration.

You can install the connector via [the GitHub repo](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-patterns-app). 

Once you’ve installed the app and configured the webhook, data will begin streaming into Patterns in real-time. Here is [an example app](https://studio.patterns.app/graph/o9mtaek8n33qasl1oa3a/nffx8k2ox23r0h5i6f6o/3evx4hiottnqeb0229ig?view=graph) you can clone that can be used to enrich, score, and prioritize new leads to your website —- this is common for optimizing a customer conversion funnel.

## Are there other ways to connect PostHog and Patterns?

Yes. You can also use the PostHog data extractor within Patterns to extract a full historical and incremental load of events. Check [this tutorial about connecting PostHog and Patterns](/tutorials/how-to-connect-patterns-and-posthog) for more information.

## FAQ

### Is the source code for this app available?

PostHog is open-source and so are all apps on the platform. The [source code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-patterns-appn) is available on GitHub.

### Who created this app?

We'd like to thank the team at Patterns for creating this app. Thank you!

### Who maintains this app?

This app is maintained by the community. If you have issues with the app not functioning as intended, please [let us know](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)!

### What if I have feedback on this app?

We love feature requests and feedback! Please [tell us what you think](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)! to tell us what you think.

### What if my question isn't answered above?

We love answering questions. Ask us anything via [our community forum](/questions), or [drop us a message](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal).

Commit message:

Docs: Update pipeline docs (#7869)
* pipeline docs update

---------

Co-authored-by: Lior539 <lneuner@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Tiina Turban <tiina303@gmail.com>

contents/docs/cdp/patterns-connector.md, after:

---
title: Patterns
layout: app
github: https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-patterns-app
installUrl: https://app.posthog.com/project/apps?name=Patterns
thumbnail: ../../cdp/thumbnails/patterns-logo.svg
tags:
    - patterns
---

Send event data from PostHog, to Patterns. This is useful for a number of reasons, including centralizing data into a CDP, or using it to generate customer models.

Patterns is a data science platform for building and deploying data pipelines, machine learning models, and complex automations. It’s built for data engineers, scientists, and analysts and abstracts away the overhead associated with setting up data infrastructure and having to configure many different tools. At the core is the Patterns protocol, a functional reactive declarative data pipelining framework that makes it easy to chain together Python and SQL scripts.

Use Patterns with PostHog to calculate metrics such as cohort churn, retention and customer LTV. Or, integrate your PostHog data with other sources such as your marketing data, email marketing tools, payment and billing systems.

## Requirements

This requires either PostHog Cloud, or a self-hosted PostHog instance running [version 1.30.0](https://posthog.com/blog/the-posthog-array-1-30-0) or later.

Not running 1.30.0? Find out [how to update your self-hosted PostHog deployment](https://posthog.com/docs/self-host/configure/upgrading-posthog)!

You'll also need an account with [Patterns](https://www.patterns.app/).

## Installation

This destination requires PostHog 1.30.0 or above, or PostHog Cloud. You also need a Patterns account. 

1. Log in to your Patterns account and create a graph 
2. Add a webhook node to your graph
3. Copy the webhook URL from the sidebar
4. Log in to your PostHog instance
5.  Click "[Data pipeline](https://us.posthog.com/apps)" in the left sidebar
6. Search for 'Patterns'
7. Select the destination, press 'Install', then select the blue gear icon to begin configuration
8. Paste the URL in "Patterns Webhook URL" during destination configuration.

You can install the connector via [the GitHub repo](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-patterns-app). 

Once you’ve installed the destination and configured the webhook, data will begin streaming into Patterns in real-time. Here is [an example app](https://studio.patterns.app/graph/o9mtaek8n33qasl1oa3a/nffx8k2ox23r0h5i6f6o/3evx4hiottnqeb0229ig?view=graph) you can clone that can be used to enrich, score, and prioritize new leads to your website —- this is common for optimizing a customer conversion funnel.

## Are there other ways to connect PostHog and Patterns?

Yes. You can also use the PostHog data extractor within Patterns to extract a full historical and incremental load of events. Check [this tutorial about connecting PostHog and Patterns](/tutorials/how-to-connect-patterns-and-posthog) for more information.

## FAQ

### Is the source code for this destination available?

PostHog is open-source and so are all destinations on the platform. The [source code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-patterns-app) is available on GitHub.

### Who created this destination?

We'd like to thank the team at Patterns for creating this destination. Thank you!

### Who maintains this destination?

This destination is maintained by the community. If you have issues with the destination not functioning as intended, please [let us know](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)!

### What if I have feedback on this destination?

We love feature requests and feedback! Please [tell us what you think](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)! to tell us what you think.

### What if my question isn't answered above?

We love answering questions. Ask us anything via [our community forum](/questions), or [drop us a message](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal).
