contents/docs/cdp/rudderstack-export.md, before:

---
title: RudderStack (Export)
github: https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudderstack-posthog-plugin
installUrl: https://app.posthog.com/project/apps?name=RudderStack
thumbnail: ../../cdp/thumbnails/rudderstack-export.png
tags:
    - rudderstack
---

Send events from PostHog to RudderStack. RudderStack will recognize PostHog as a data source, so you can use RudderStack's data pipeline features to send PostHog event data to other platforms.

## Requirements

This requires either PostHog Cloud with the [data pipeline add-on](https://us.posthog.com/organization/billing), or a self-hosted PostHog instance running [version 1.30.0](https://posthog.com/blog/the-posthog-array-1-30-0) or later.

Not running 1.30.0? Find out [how to update your self-hosted PostHog deployment](https://posthog.com/docs/runbook/upgrading-posthog)!

You'll also need access to the Rudderstack instance you want to export to.

## Installation

First, create a PostHog source in your RudderStack dashboard. Need help? Check [RudderStack's documentation](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs) for more information.

Once you've added PostHog as a source, make a note of the `write-key` field and your RudderStack server URL (also called the Data Planer URL).

1. Visit the 'Apps' page in your instance of PostHog.
2. Search for 'Rudderstack' and select the app, press Install.
3. Follow the on-screen steps to configure the app, entering your `write-key` and server URL information.

## Configuration

<AppParameters />

## FAQ

### Is the source code for this app available?

PostHog is open-source and so are all apps on the platform. The [source code](https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudderstack-posthog-plugin) is available on GitHub.

### Who created this app?

This was created by community members and the team at RudderStack. We'd like to thank [Sayan-Mitra](https://github.com/sayan-mitra), [Gavin](https://github.com/thtmnisamnstr), [Amey Varangaonkar](https://github.com/ameypv-rudder), [Utsab Chowdhury](https://github.com/utsabc) and [Arnab Pal](https://github.com/arnab-p) for creating it. Thank you, all!

### Who maintains this app?

This app is maintained by Rudderstack. If you have issues with the app not functioning as intended, please [let us know](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)!

### What if I have feedback on this app?

We love feature requests and feedback! Please [tell us what you think](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)! to tell us what you think.

### What if my question isn't answered above?

We love answering questions. Ask us anything via [our community forum](/questions), or [drop us a message](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal).

Commit message:

add pipeline links in all apps

contents/docs/cdp/rudderstack-export.md, after:

---
title: RudderStack (Export)
github: https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudderstack-posthog-plugin
installUrl: https://app.posthog.com/project/apps?name=RudderStack
thumbnail: ../../cdp/thumbnails/rudderstack-export.png
tags:
    - rudderstack
---

Send events from PostHog to RudderStack. RudderStack will recognize PostHog as a data source, so you can use RudderStack's data pipeline features to send PostHog event data to other platforms.

## Requirements

This requires either PostHog Cloud with the [data pipeline add-on](https://us.posthog.com/organization/billing), or a self-hosted PostHog instance running [version 1.30.0](https://posthog.com/blog/the-posthog-array-1-30-0) or later.

Not running 1.30.0? Find out [how to update your self-hosted PostHog deployment](https://posthog.com/docs/runbook/upgrading-posthog)!

You'll also need access to the Rudderstack instance you want to export to.

## Installation

First, create a PostHog source in your RudderStack dashboard. Need help? Check [RudderStack's documentation](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs) for more information.

Once you've added PostHog as a source, make a note of the `write-key` field and your RudderStack server URL (also called the Data Planer URL).

1. In PostHog, click the "[Data pipeline](https://us.posthog.com/apps)" tab in the left sidebar.
2. Search for 'Rudderstack' and select the app, press Install.
3. Follow the on-screen steps to configure the app, entering your `write-key` and server URL information.

## Configuration

<AppParameters />

## FAQ

### Is the source code for this app available?

PostHog is open-source and so are all apps on the platform. The [source code](https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudderstack-posthog-plugin) is available on GitHub.

### Who created this app?

This was created by community members and the team at RudderStack. We'd like to thank [Sayan-Mitra](https://github.com/sayan-mitra), [Gavin](https://github.com/thtmnisamnstr), [Amey Varangaonkar](https://github.com/ameypv-rudder), [Utsab Chowdhury](https://github.com/utsabc) and [Arnab Pal](https://github.com/arnab-p) for creating it. Thank you, all!

### Who maintains this app?

This app is maintained by Rudderstack. If you have issues with the app not functioning as intended, please [let us know](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)!

### What if I have feedback on this app?

We love feature requests and feedback! Please [tell us what you think](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)! to tell us what you think.

### What if my question isn't answered above?

We love answering questions. Ask us anything via [our community forum](/questions), or [drop us a message](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal).
