contents/docs/cdp/twilio.md, before:

---
title: Twilio
github: https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-twilio-plugin
installUrl: https://app.posthog.com/project/apps?name=posthog-twilio-plugin
thumbnail: ../../cdp/thumbnails/twilio.png
tags:
    - twilio
---

This app triggers SMS messages in Twilio when specified events or actions are detected in PostHog.

You can set a timeout period of between 1 second and 31536000 seconds (1 calendar year) to avoid accidentally spamming users with too many messages.

## Requirements

This app requires either PostHog Cloud, or a self-hosted PostHog instance running [version 1.30.0](https://posthog.com/blog/the-posthog-array-1-30-0) or later.

Not running 1.30.0? Find out [how to update your self-hosted PostHog deployment](https://posthog.com/docs/runbook/upgrading-posthog)!

## Installation

1. Visit the 'Apps' page in your instance of PostHog.
2. Search for 'Twilio' and select the app, press 'Install'.
3. Follow the steps below to configure the app.

## Configuration

To configure this app, you will need your Account SID and Auth Token from Twilio. You can find these in Twilio in your account menu under `Account > Keys & Credentials > API Keys and tokens > Live credentials`.

Additionally, you will need to know your Twilio Phone Number. Follow [Twilio's documentation for buying or finding your Twilio phone numbers](https://www.twilio.com/docs/usage/tutorials/how-to-use-your-free-trial-account#get-your-first-twilio-phone-number).

## Additional configuration

<AppParameters />

## FAQ

### Is the source code for this app available?

PostHog is open-source and so are all apps on the platform. The [source code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-twilio-plugin) is available on GitHub.

### Who created this app?

We'd like to thank community members [Sandeep Guptan](https://github.com/samcaspus) and [Himanshu Garg](https://github.com/merrcury) for their work creating this app. Thank you, both!

### Where can I find out more?

Check [Twilio's documentation](https://www.twilio.com/docs/) for more information on connecting Twilio with other services.

### Who maintains this app?

This app is maintained by the community. If you have issues with the app not functioning as intended, please [let us know](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)!

### What if I have feedback on this app?

We love feature requests and feedback! Please [tell us what you think](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)! to tell us what you think.

### What if my question isn't answered above?

We love answering questions. Ask us anything via [our community forum](/questions), or [drop us a message](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal).

Commit message:

Docs: Add data pipeline add-on requirement (#7706)
* data pipeline add on

contents/docs/cdp/twilio.md, after:

---
title: Twilio
github: https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-twilio-plugin
installUrl: https://app.posthog.com/project/apps?name=posthog-twilio-plugin
thumbnail: ../../cdp/thumbnails/twilio.png
tags:
    - twilio
---

This app triggers SMS messages in Twilio when specified events or actions are detected in PostHog.

You can set a timeout period of between 1 second and 31536000 seconds (1 calendar year) to avoid accidentally spamming users with too many messages.

## Requirements

This app requires either PostHog Cloud with the [data pipeline add-on](https://us.posthog.com/organization/billing), or a self-hosted PostHog instance running [version 1.30.0](https://posthog.com/blog/the-posthog-array-1-30-0) or later.

Not running 1.30.0? Find out [how to update your self-hosted PostHog deployment](https://posthog.com/docs/runbook/upgrading-posthog)!

## Installation

1. Visit the 'Apps' page in your instance of PostHog.
2. Search for 'Twilio' and select the app, press 'Install'.
3. Follow the steps below to configure the app.

## Configuration

To configure this app, you will need your Account SID and Auth Token from Twilio. You can find these in Twilio in your account menu under `Account > Keys & Credentials > API Keys and tokens > Live credentials`.

Additionally, you will need to know your Twilio Phone Number. Follow [Twilio's documentation for buying or finding your Twilio phone numbers](https://www.twilio.com/docs/usage/tutorials/how-to-use-your-free-trial-account#get-your-first-twilio-phone-number).

## Additional configuration

<AppParameters />

## FAQ

### Is the source code for this app available?

PostHog is open-source and so are all apps on the platform. The [source code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-twilio-plugin) is available on GitHub.

### Who created this app?

We'd like to thank community members [Sandeep Guptan](https://github.com/samcaspus) and [Himanshu Garg](https://github.com/merrcury) for their work creating this app. Thank you, both!

### Where can I find out more?

Check [Twilio's documentation](https://www.twilio.com/docs/) for more information on connecting Twilio with other services.

### Who maintains this app?

This app is maintained by the community. If you have issues with the app not functioning as intended, please [let us know](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)!

### What if I have feedback on this app?

We love feature requests and feedback! Please [tell us what you think](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)! to tell us what you think.

### What if my question isn't answered above?

We love answering questions. Ask us anything via [our community forum](/questions), or [drop us a message](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal).
