contents/docs/cdp/user-agent-populator.md, before:

---
title: User Agent Populator
github: https://github.com/weyert/useragentplugin
installUrl: https://app.posthog.com/project/apps?name=User%20Agent%20Populator
thumbnail: ../../cdp/thumbnails/user-agent-enhancer.png
tags:
    - user-agent
---

This app enhances incoming events by including browser & OS details from the `$useragent` property.

> **Note: ** This app is generally only needed when using clients that don't already set these properties, or when sending events directly from the server.

This app extracts the following properties from the provided `$useragent`:

| Property | Description | Example|
| --- | --- | --- |
| `$browser` | Name of the browser for the user | Chrome, Firefox |
| `$browser_version` | The version of the browser that was used | 70, 79 |
| `$os` | The operating system of the user | Windows, Mac OS X |
| `$browser_type` | The type of client that made the request | bot, browser |

## Installation

### PostHog Cloud

PostHog Cloud users can find the app [here](https://app.posthog.com/project/apps?name=User+Agent+Populator) in their dashboard.

Before you can enable the app, you will need to [configure](#configure) it by clicking on the settings icon.
Once the app has been configured, you can enable it by flipping the toggle and it will start transforming all new events.

### PostHog Self-hosted

> The User Agent Populator requires a PostHog instance running [version 1.30.0](https://posthog.com/blog/the-posthog-array-1-30-0) or later.
> Not running 1.30.0? Find out [how to update](https://posthog.com/docs/runbook/upgrading-posthog)!

1. Visit the 'Apps' page in your instance of PostHog.
2. Search for 'User Agent Populator'.
3. [Configure](#configure) the app by clicking on the settings icon.
4. Click the toggle to enable the app.

Once the app has been configured and enabled, it will begin to transform all new events which come into PostHog.

## Configuration

Before an app can be enabled in PostHog, it has to be configured.

<AppParameters />

## Using the User Agent Populator

This app works by parsing the `$useragent` property on events as they are ingested.
As a result, if an event is ingested without the `$useragent` (or `$user-agent`) property set, this app will do nothing.
This property can be set using any of our [client](/docs/integrate#client-libraries) or [server](/docs/integrate#server-libraries) libraries.

> **Note: ** Most of our client libraries will already automatically extract the `$browser`, `$browser_version`, and `$os` properties, so there is no need to set the `$useragent` property when using these libraries.

One common use-case for this app is populating client information when sending events from the server-side. Typically, a `UserAgent` header will be set when a client sends a request to your server, which your server can then forward to PostHog with the `$useragent` property.
This gives you an idea of what types of clients are using your service and allows you to create insights that filter based on these properties.

## What if my question isn't answered above?

We love answering questions. Ask us anything [in our community forums](/questions) or using the Q&A widget at the bottom of this page.

## FAQ

### Who maintains this app?

This app is maintained by the community. If you have issues with the app not functioning as intended, please [let us know](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)!

### What if I have feedback on this app?

We love feature requests and feedback! Please [tell us what you think](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)! to tell us what you think.

### What if my question isn't answered above?

We love answering questions. Ask us anything via [our community forum](/questions), or [drop us a message](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal).

Commit message:

add pipeline links in all apps

contents/docs/cdp/user-agent-populator.md, after:

---
title: User Agent Populator
github: https://github.com/weyert/useragentplugin
installUrl: https://app.posthog.com/project/apps?name=User%20Agent%20Populator
thumbnail: ../../cdp/thumbnails/user-agent-enhancer.png
tags:
    - user-agent
---

This app enhances incoming events by including browser & OS details from the `$useragent` property.

> **Note: ** This app is generally only needed when using clients that don't already set these properties, or when sending events directly from the server.

This app extracts the following properties from the provided `$useragent`:

| Property | Description | Example|
| --- | --- | --- |
| `$browser` | Name of the browser for the user | Chrome, Firefox |
| `$browser_version` | The version of the browser that was used | 70, 79 |
| `$os` | The operating system of the user | Windows, Mac OS X |
| `$browser_type` | The type of client that made the request | bot, browser |

## Installation

### PostHog Cloud

PostHog Cloud users can find the app [here](https://app.posthog.com/project/apps?name=User+Agent+Populator) in their dashboard.

Before you can enable the app, you will need to [configure](#configure) it by clicking on the settings icon.
Once the app has been configured, you can enable it by flipping the toggle and it will start transforming all new events.

### PostHog Self-hosted

> The User Agent Populator requires a PostHog instance running [version 1.30.0](https://posthog.com/blog/the-posthog-array-1-30-0) or later.
> Not running 1.30.0? Find out [how to update](https://posthog.com/docs/runbook/upgrading-posthog)!

1. In PostHog, click the "[Data pipeline](https://us.posthog.com/apps)" tab in the left sidebar.
2. Search for 'User Agent Populator'.
3. [Configure](#configure) the app by clicking on the settings icon.
4. Click the toggle to enable the app.

Once the app has been configured and enabled, it will begin to transform all new events which come into PostHog.

## Configuration

Before an app can be enabled in PostHog, it has to be configured.

<AppParameters />

## Using the User Agent Populator

This app works by parsing the `$useragent` property on events as they are ingested.
As a result, if an event is ingested without the `$useragent` (or `$user-agent`) property set, this app will do nothing.
This property can be set using any of our [client](/docs/integrate#client-libraries) or [server](/docs/integrate#server-libraries) libraries.

> **Note: ** Most of our client libraries will already automatically extract the `$browser`, `$browser_version`, and `$os` properties, so there is no need to set the `$useragent` property when using these libraries.

One common use-case for this app is populating client information when sending events from the server-side. Typically, a `UserAgent` header will be set when a client sends a request to your server, which your server can then forward to PostHog with the `$useragent` property.
This gives you an idea of what types of clients are using your service and allows you to create insights that filter based on these properties.

## What if my question isn't answered above?

We love answering questions. Ask us anything [in our community forums](/questions) or using the Q&A widget at the bottom of this page.

## FAQ

### Who maintains this app?

This app is maintained by the community. If you have issues with the app not functioning as intended, please [let us know](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)!

### What if I have feedback on this app?

We love feature requests and feedback! Please [tell us what you think](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal)! to tell us what you think.

### What if my question isn't answered above?

We love answering questions. Ask us anything via [our community forum](/questions), or [drop us a message](http://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal).
