contents/handbook/small-teams/pipeline/objectives.mdx, before:

## Objectives: Q3 2023

- Define and enforce limits on what users can send us - Owner @xaviervelo
- Deprecate and improve apps
  - Finish batch exports so we can deprecate export apps - Owner @tomasfarias
  - Remove all processing apps - Owner @tiina303
- Figure out the pipeline architecture for the next 2 years - Owner @timgl

## Objectives: Q2 2023

- Objective: CDP - Owner @fuziontech
    - Key Result: Rock solid webhooks - Owner @hazzadous
        - Edit: deprioritized as it is not a burning bridge, and instead:
        - Improve quality of existing offering by removing questionable Apps: mark apps that store lots of data in postgres, or are generally lower quality as non-global or disable altogether.
        - Separate export and CPD Apps within the interface to enable separating the two products. Bill these two products separately.
        - Make batch processing exports rock solid as below.
    - Key Result: Rock solid batch processing (exports) - Owner @tomasfarias
- Objective: Pipeline unblocks query performance and ensures data quality - Owner @tiina303
    - Key Result: Persons on Events write path and squash shipped with monitoring and alerting
    - Key Result: Backfills are complete for all teams
    - Key Result: Guaranteed deduplication of UUIDs in events table within 7 days (with docs explaining it)
    - Key Result: Query time deduplication of events to cover until ClickHouse deduplication is complete
- Objective: Pipeline Robustness and Reliability - Owner @xvello
    - Key Result: Errors cause kafka lag instead of DLQ production e.g. person creation failures cause kafka lag not go to DLQ
    - Key Result: Plugin server scales elastically and deploys do not create more than 2 minutes of lag


## Objectives: Q1 2023

- Objective: Performance
    - Key Results: We have wrapped up the person-on-event project and have deprecated the old non-person-on-events queries
        - Why? Performance speed up
    - Key Results: We have reduced the cost per event for capture by an order of magnitude
        - Why? Infra savings and improves performance
- Objective: Reliability
    - Key Results: We have converted all current US dashboards into IaC dashboards configured in Terraform and made all necessary migrations from StatsD to Prom to support this.
        - Why? Gets US and EU equivalent in terms of monitoring
    - Key Results: All of our alerts have runbooks
        - Why? Improve incident recovery times and share knowledge with all engineers, so that most incidents can be resolved without escalating to the team
    - Key Results: Backfills do not slow us down or take down the system. We have tests for this.
        - Why? Improves service quality and protects against bad actors
    - Key Results: Erroring apps fail gracefully, do not take down anything else, and we have tests to prove this. And re-enable after temporary unavailability
        - Why? Improves service quality and tackles customer annoyance of apps turning off when there's an error

Commit message:

Pipeline Q4 objectives (#6756)
* Pipeline Q4 objectives

* Update contents/handbook/small-teams/pipeline/objectives.mdx

Co-authored-by: Tiina Turban <tiina303@gmail.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Tiina Turban <tiina303@gmail.com>

contents/handbook/small-teams/pipeline/objectives.mdx, after:

## Objectives: Q4 2023

- Keep the lights on
  - Increase isolation with Redis - Xavier Vello
  - Roll out RDKafka - Brett Hoerner
  - All events ingested through capture-rs - Xavier Vello
  - Make GeoIP cheaper - Ted
  - moving event properties follow-ups, cohorts, ... outside of ingestion hot path - Ted
- Batch exports migrations - Tomás Farías Santana
  - Redshift and maybe replicator depending on demands
  - Add logs/metrics/alerting
  - Higher frequency
- Webhooks v2 - Tiina Turban
  - the new delivery system that can 
  	- retries
 	- observability to both users and us for success rate, retry count, latency
 	- endpoint disabling
 	- multiple webhook destinations
 	- UI
 	- can be used for automation for other teams needs
 - move webhooks, resthooks and onEvent apps to use the new system
- PoE - Brett Hoerner
  - KV store for person overrides
  - Stretch: Squash person overrides 
  - Stretch: persons without ordering constraints

## Objectives: Q3 2023

- Define and enforce limits on what users can send us - Owner @xaviervelo
- Deprecate and improve apps
  - Finish batch exports so we can deprecate export apps - Owner @tomasfarias
  - Remove all processing apps - Owner @tiina303
- Figure out the pipeline architecture for the next 2 years - Owner @timgl

## Objectives: Q2 2023

- Objective: CDP - Owner @fuziontech
    - Key Result: Rock solid webhooks - Owner @hazzadous
        - Edit: deprioritized as it is not a burning bridge, and instead:
        - Improve quality of existing offering by removing questionable Apps: mark apps that store lots of data in postgres, or are generally lower quality as non-global or disable altogether.
        - Separate export and CPD Apps within the interface to enable separating the two products. Bill these two products separately.
        - Make batch processing exports rock solid as below.
    - Key Result: Rock solid batch processing (exports) - Owner @tomasfarias
- Objective: Pipeline unblocks query performance and ensures data quality - Owner @tiina303
    - Key Result: Persons on Events write path and squash shipped with monitoring and alerting
    - Key Result: Backfills are complete for all teams
    - Key Result: Guaranteed deduplication of UUIDs in events table within 7 days (with docs explaining it)
    - Key Result: Query time deduplication of events to cover until ClickHouse deduplication is complete
- Objective: Pipeline Robustness and Reliability - Owner @xvello
    - Key Result: Errors cause kafka lag instead of DLQ production e.g. person creation failures cause kafka lag not go to DLQ
    - Key Result: Plugin server scales elastically and deploys do not create more than 2 minutes of lag


## Objectives: Q1 2023

- Objective: Performance
    - Key Results: We have wrapped up the person-on-event project and have deprecated the old non-person-on-events queries
        - Why? Performance speed up
    - Key Results: We have reduced the cost per event for capture by an order of magnitude
        - Why? Infra savings and improves performance
- Objective: Reliability
    - Key Results: We have converted all current US dashboards into IaC dashboards configured in Terraform and made all necessary migrations from StatsD to Prom to support this.
        - Why? Gets US and EU equivalent in terms of monitoring
    - Key Results: All of our alerts have runbooks
        - Why? Improve incident recovery times and share knowledge with all engineers, so that most incidents can be resolved without escalating to the team
    - Key Results: Backfills do not slow us down or take down the system. We have tests for this.
        - Why? Improves service quality and protects against bad actors
    - Key Results: Erroring apps fail gracefully, do not take down anything else, and we have tests to prove this. And re-enable after temporary unavailability
        - Why? Improves service quality and tackles customer annoyance of apps turning off when there's an error
