contents/docs/integrate/send-events/_snippets/send-events-ios.mdx, before:

import SettingProperties from "./setting-properties-text.mdx" 
import NamingTip from "./naming-tip.mdx" 
import Intro from "./intro.mdx" 

<Intro />

```objectivec
[[PHGPostHog sharedPostHog] capture:@"user_signed_up"];
```

```swift
posthog.capture("user_signed_up")
```

<NamingTip />

<SettingProperties />

```objectivec
[[PHGPostHog sharedPostHog] capture:@"user_signed_up" 
    properties:@{ @"login_type": @"email", 
                  @"$is_free_trial": @YES }
];
```

```swift
posthog.capture(
    "user_signed_up", 
    properties: ["login_type": "email", "$set": ["is_free_trial": true] 
])
```

### Capturing screen views

With [`configuration.recordScreenViews`](/ios#all-configuration-options) set as `YES`, PostHog will try to record all screen changes automatically.

If you want to manually send a new screen capture event, use the `screen` function.

```objectivec
[[PHGPostHog sharedPostHog] screen:@"Dashboard" properties:@{ @"fromIcon": @"bottom" }];
```

```swift
posthog.screen("Dashboard", properties: ["fromIcon": "bottom"])
```

Commit message:

chore: Add mobile autocapture docs

contents/docs/integrate/send-events/_snippets/send-events-ios.mdx, after:

import SettingProperties from "./setting-properties-text.mdx" 
import NamingTip from "./naming-tip.mdx" 
import Intro from "./intro.mdx" 

<Intro />

```objectivec
[[PHGPostHog sharedPostHog] capture:@"user_signed_up"];
```

```swift
posthog.capture("user_signed_up")
```

<NamingTip />

<SettingProperties />

```objectivec
[[PHGPostHog sharedPostHog] capture:@"user_signed_up" 
    properties:@{ @"login_type": @"email", 
                  @"$is_free_trial": @YES }
];
```

```swift
posthog.capture(
    "user_signed_up", 
    properties: ["login_type": "email", "$set": ["is_free_trial": true] 
])
```

### Autocapture 

PostHog autocapture automatically tracks the following events for you:

-   **Application Opened** - when the app is opened from a closed state or when the app comes to the foreground (e.g. from the app switcher)
-   **Deep Link Opened** - when the app is opened from a deep link.
-   **Application Backgrounded** - when the app is sent to the background by the user
-   **Application Installed** - when the app is installed.
-   **Application Updated** - when the app is updated.
-   **$screen** - when the user navigates (if using `UIViewController`)

### Capturing screen views

With [`configuration.recordScreenViews`](/ios#all-configuration-options) set as `YES`, PostHog will try to record all screen changes automatically.

If you want to manually send a new screen capture event, use the `screen` function.

```objectivec
[[PHGPostHog sharedPostHog] screen:@"Dashboard" properties:@{ @"fromIcon": @"bottom" }];
```

```swift
posthog.screen("Dashboard", properties: ["fromIcon": "bottom"])
```
