contents/docs/surveys/creating-surveys.mdx, before:

---
title: Creating surveys
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
availability:
    free: none
    selfServe: full
    enterprise: full
---

To create a new survey, go to the [surveys tab](https://app.posthog.com/surveys) in the PostHog app, and click on the "New survey" button in the top right.

This presents you with a form where you can complete the details of your new survey:

![Create a survey](../../images/docs/surveys/new-survey.png)

Here's a breakdown of each field in the form:

### Display mode

There are two options for displaying a survey:

1. **Popover:** Use PostHog's prebuilt user interfaces to show survey's as a popover in the bottom corner of the screen.

2. **API:** Implement your own survey UI and use PostHog to handle display logic, capturing results, and analytics.

### Question type

PostHog supports multiple questions types. All survey types are available for both popover and API display modes.


| Type                      | Preview                                                                                               |
|------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Open text**              | ![Open text survey](../../images/docs/surveys/freetext-survey.png)                                     |
| **Link**                   | ![Link survey](../../images/docs/surveys/link-survey.png)                                              |
| **Rating - emoji**         | ![Emoji rating survey](../../images/docs/surveys/rating-emoji-survey.png)                              |
| **Rating - number**        | ![Number rating survey](../../images/docs/surveys/rating-number-survey.png)                            |
| **Single choice select**   | ![Single choice select survey](../../images/docs/surveys/single-select-survey.png)                      |
| **Multiple choice select** | ![Multiple choice survey](../../images/docs/surveys/multiple-choice-survey.png)                         |

### Targeting

This specifies the conditions a user must meet to be shown the survey. A user must meet **ALL** the conditions to be eligible.

You can target your survey to specific users based on:

- **Linked feature flag:** Whether a user has a specific [feature flag](/docs/feature-flags) enabled. For example, if you're rolling out a new landing page using a feature flag `new-landing-page`, you can gather feedback only from users who have that flag enabled.

- **Page URL contains:** Where the current URL contains a specific string.
  
- **Selector matches:** Whether a specific element appears on the page with the specified class name or ID. For example, you can target a survey with `#my-button` or `.my-button` selector.

- **User/group properties:** You can target a survey to users who have a specific [user](/docs/product-analytics/user-properties) or [group property](/docs/product-analytics/group-analytics#how-to-set-group-properties). For example, you can target a survey to users who have a property `is_paying=true`.

![Survey targeting options](../../images/docs/surveys/targeting-options.png) 

## Launching your survey

Once you've set up your survey, click "Save as draft" to save your survey. This enables you to review any changes before launching. Then, when you're ready to launch, click the "Launch" button.

If you've created a [popover survey](#display-mode), your survey will begin showing immediately.

If you've created an [API survey](#display-mode), you'll need to add your [custom survey code](/docs/surveys/implementing-custom-surveys) before launching.

Commit message:

Tutorial: How to show a survey after a delay (#7081)
* delayed survey

---------

Co-authored-by: Lior539 <lneuner@gmail.com>

contents/docs/surveys/creating-surveys.mdx, after:

---
title: Creating surveys
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
availability:
    free: none
    selfServe: full
    enterprise: full
---

To create a new survey, go to the [surveys tab](https://app.posthog.com/surveys) in the PostHog app, and click on the "New survey" button in the top right.

This presents you with a form where you can complete the details of your new survey:

![Create a survey](../../images/docs/surveys/new-survey.png)

Here's a breakdown of each field in the form:

### Display mode

There are two options for displaying a survey:

1. **Popover:** Use PostHog's prebuilt user interfaces to show survey's as a popover in the bottom corner of the screen.

2. **API:** Implement your own survey UI and use PostHog to handle display logic, capturing results, and analytics.

### Question type

PostHog supports multiple questions types. All survey types are available for both popover and API display modes.


| Type                      | Preview                                                                                               |
|------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Open text**              | ![Open text survey](../../images/docs/surveys/freetext-survey.png)                                     |
| **Link**                   | ![Link survey](../../images/docs/surveys/link-survey.png)                                              |
| **Rating - emoji**         | ![Emoji rating survey](../../images/docs/surveys/rating-emoji-survey.png)                              |
| **Rating - number**        | ![Number rating survey](../../images/docs/surveys/rating-number-survey.png)                            |
| **Single choice select**   | ![Single choice select survey](../../images/docs/surveys/single-select-survey.png)                      |
| **Multiple choice select** | ![Multiple choice survey](../../images/docs/surveys/multiple-choice-survey.png)                         |

### Targeting

This specifies the conditions a user must meet to be shown the survey. A user must meet **ALL** the conditions to be eligible.

You can target your survey to specific users based on:

- **Linked feature flag:** Whether a user has a specific [feature flag](/docs/feature-flags) enabled. For example, if you're rolling out a new landing page using a feature flag `new-landing-page`, you can gather feedback only from users who have that flag enabled.

- **Page URL contains:** Where the current URL contains a specific string.
  
- **Selector matches:** Whether a specific element appears on the page with the specified class name or ID. For example, you can target a survey with `#my-button` or `.my-button` selector.

- **User/group properties:** You can target a survey to users who have a specific [user](/docs/product-analytics/user-properties) or [group property](/docs/product-analytics/group-analytics#how-to-set-group-properties). For example, you can target a survey to users who have a property `is_paying=true`.

![Survey targeting options](../../images/docs/surveys/targeting-options.png)

> **Want your survey to show up after a delay?** Use selector matching to match a class, then add logic to add that class to your page after a delay. See the full set up in our on [how to show a survey after a delay](/tutorials/delayed-survey)

## Launching your survey

Once you've set up your survey, click "Save as draft" to save your survey. This enables you to review any changes before launching. Then, when you're ready to launch, click the "Launch" button.

If you've created a [popover survey](#display-mode), your survey will begin showing immediately.

If you've created an [API survey](#display-mode), you'll need to add your [custom survey code](/docs/surveys/implementing-custom-surveys) before launching.
