contents/docs/surveys/tutorials.mdx, before:

---
title: Tutorials and guides
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

## Tutorials

- [How to show a survey after a delay](/tutorials/delayed-survey)
- [How to analyze surveys with ChatGPT](/tutorials/analyze-surveys-with-chatgpt)
- [How to collect feedback from beta users](/tutorials/beta-feedback)
- [How to create custom surveys](/tutorials/survey)

## Framework guides 

- [How to set up surveys in Angular](/tutorials/angular-surveys)
- [How to set up surveys in Astro](/tutorials/astro-surveys)
- [How to set up surveys in Bubble](/tutorials/bubble-surveys)
- [How to set up surveys in Framer](/tutorials/framer-surveys)
- [How to set up surveys in Next.js](/tutorials/nextjs-surveys)
- [How to set up surveys in Nuxt.js](/tutorials/nuxt-surveys)
- [How to set up surveys in React](/tutorials/react-surveys)
- [How to set up surveys in Remix](/tutorials/remix-surveys)
- [How to set up surveys in Svelte](/tutorials/svelte-surveys)
- [How to set up surveys in Webflow](/tutorials/webflow-surveys)
- [How to set up surveys in Vue](/tutorials/vue-surveys)

Commit message:

Overhaul and update tutorials pages for each product (#7815)
* initial

* Tutorials improvement

* Update contents/docs/experiments/tutorials.mdx

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Ian Vanagas <34755028+ivanagas@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Ian Vanagas <34755028+ivanagas@users.noreply.github.com>

contents/docs/surveys/tutorials.mdx, after:

---
title: Tutorials and guides
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---
Got a question which isn't answered below? Head to [the community forum](/questions) to let us know!

- [How to show a survey after a delay](/tutorials/delayed-survey)
- [How to analyze surveys with ChatGPT](/tutorials/analyze-surveys-with-chatgpt)
- [How to collect feedback from beta users](/tutorials/beta-feedback)
- [How to create custom surveys](/tutorials/survey)
- [How to run a fake door test](/tutorials/fake-door-test)

## Framework guides 
- [How to set up surveys in Angular](/tutorials/angular-surveys)
- [How to set up surveys in Astro](/tutorials/astro-surveys)
- [How to set up surveys in Bubble](/tutorials/bubble-surveys)
- [How to set up surveys in Framer](/tutorials/framer-surveys)
- [How to set up surveys in Next.js](/tutorials/nextjs-surveys)
- [How to set up surveys in Nuxt.js](/tutorials/nuxt-surveys)
- [How to set up surveys in React](/tutorials/react-surveys)
- [How to set up surveys in Remix](/tutorials/remix-surveys)
- [How to set up surveys in Svelte](/tutorials/svelte-surveys)
- [How to set up surveys in Webflow](/tutorials/webflow-surveys)
- [How to set up surveys in Vue](/tutorials/vue-surveys)

## Best practices for user surveys
Find out how other teams, like [Purplewave](/customers/purplewave), use surveys in [our customer stories](/customers), or check out our best practices for user surveys below...

- [How to uncover your users' real problems](https://newsletter.posthog.com/p/how-to-uncover-your-users-real-problems)
- [How to work out what users really need](/blog/how-to-work-out-what-users-need)
