contents/teams/sales-cs/objectives.mdx, before:

- **Objective**: git good at new sales
- **Goals**
  - Through adding **new** customers only:
    - Add 3 extra large customers ($100k/yr) - _Simon_
    - Add 4 large customers ($60k/yr) - _Cameron_
    - Add 20 medium customers ($20k/yr) - _Cameron_
  - Hit monthly logo retention targets for customers who have paid 2+ invoices:
    - Extra large customers ($100k/yr) - 100% - _Simon_
    - Large customers ($60k/yr) - 95% - _Mine_
    - Medium customers ($20k/yr) - 90% - _Mine_
    - Build a retention playbook so we have a repeatable process - _Mine_
  - Do more with inbound sales prospects:
    - Implement new automations that increase conversion from demo to paying, and potentially engage more self serve people - _Joe_
    - Generate a bunch of new leads from ICP signups - _Charles_
  - Hit our Support SLAs for all High and Normal priority customers - _Marcus + Steven_
  - Have one big (input) number that you own and report publicly each week - _Everyone_
- **Anti-goals**
  - We _really_ need to understand how to do retention well first - let’s nail that in Q2 so that in Q3 we can then layer in expansion goals. But having expansion goals now feels premature, and we probably need another CSM to do this properly.
    - Some expansion will naturally happen through retention efforts anyway.
  - Events in themselves are not a goal, but may be useful to help hit the actual sales goals. Spending time in person with existing prospects is more likely to help here.

Commit message:

Update Q2 CS objectives
- Changed my objective to be a hiring one, as that is more important than continued ineffective SDR attempts (I know what we need to hire for now)
- Changed events antigoal to be more explicit

contents/teams/sales-cs/objectives.mdx, after:

- **Objective**: git good at new sales
- **Goals**
  - Through adding **new** customers only:
    - Add 3 extra large customers ($100k/yr) - _Simon_
    - Add 4 large customers ($60k/yr) - _Cameron_
    - Add 20 medium customers ($20k/yr) - _Cameron_
    - Implement new automations that increase conversion from demo to paying, and potentially engage more self serve people - _Joe_
  - Hit monthly logo retention targets for customers who have paid 2+ invoices:
    - Extra large customers ($100k/yr) - 100% - _Simon_
    - Large customers ($60k/yr) - 95% - _Mine_
    - Medium customers ($20k/yr) - 90% - _Mine_
    - Build a retention playbook so we have a repeatable process - _Mine_
  - Hire a CSM and an inbound SDR - _Charles_
  - Hit our Support SLAs for all High and Normal priority customers - _Marcus + Steven_
  - Have one big (input) number that you own and report publicly each week - _Everyone_
- **Anti-goals**
  - We _really_ need to understand how to do retention well first - let’s nail that in Q2 so that in Q3 we can then layer in expansion goals. But having expansion goals now feels premature, and we probably need another CSM to do this properly.
    - Some expansion will naturally happen through retention efforts anyway.
  - Events are not a goal. Instead, we should prioritize spending time in person with existing prospects.
