---
title: 1-1s
sidebar: Handbook
showTitle: true
---

A lot of managers and team members find 1-1s very useful. This short FAQ is intended to help you get the most out of them. 

## What are 1-1s and why should I do them?

The most important part of any manager's role at PostHog is [setting context](/handbook/company/management). 1-1s can be valuable opportunity to do this by diving deeper into topics which may not be easy to cover in other contexts like GitHub or sprint planning. 

Most people do a weekly or bi-weekly 1-1 with their manager, with a 30min minimum. Any less than this is too short or infrequent. 

## Sounds easy enough - what’s the problem?

It’s very easy for 1-1s to:
- Not happen because you’re both too busy
- Just be a regular status update on tasks or projects
- Be a general chat without much direction

None of these options are terribly useful for either party. 

## Ok, so how do I have a great 1-1?

If you are a manager, ask better questions! The 1-1 should be a conversation, not just a status update. Of course you will naturally touch on discuss what’s going on that week, but your 1-1 should ideally be person-centric rather than project-centric.

Julie Zhuo suggests the following buckets of questions you might find useful in her excellent book ‘[The Making of a Manager](https://www.juliezhuo.com/book/manager.html)’:

- **Identify**
  - What’s top of mind for you right now?
  - What priorities are you thinking about this week?
  - What’s the best use of our time today?
- **Understand**
  - What does your ideal outcome look like?
  - What’s hard for you in getting to that outcome?
  - What do you really care about?
  - What do you think is the best course of action?
  - What’s the worst-case scenario you’re worried about?
- **Support**
  - How can I help you?
  - What can I do to make you more successful?
  - What was the most useful part of our conversation today?

Obviously the intention here is not to just race through the questions above like a robot - they are simply suggestions for useful ways to engage in a more insightful way with your team. Some people like a structured approach, others prefer something looser - tailor the 1-1 based on your team member's needs. 

## The last word...

“The ideal 1:1 leaves your report feeling that it was useful for her. If she thinks that the conversation was pleasant but largely unmemorable, you can do better.” - Julie Zhuo

If you want to learn more, check out First Round Review for at least [another 6 articles](https://review.firstround.com/managers-take-your-1-1s-to-the-next-level-with-these-6-must-reads) on the subject. 
