contents/docs/session-replay/console-log-recording.mdx, before:

---
title: Console logs recording
availability:
    free: full
    selfServe: full
    enterprise: full
---

PostHog can capture console logs from your application. This is useful for debugging and providing extra context on what is happening in your user's browser environment. 

As console logs can contain sensitive information, we do not capture these logs automatically. You can enable this feature globally from your [project settings](https://us.posthog.com/settings/project-replay#replay) or client-side by setting `enable_recording_console_log: true` in our [JavaScript web library config](/docs/integrate/client/js/#config).

> **Important:** Console logs are recorded if _either_ the project setting **or** the client-side config is set to `true`. Console logs are not recorded if session replay is not enabled.

```js-web
posthog.init('<ph_project_api_key>', {
    api_host: '<ph_instance_address>',
    enable_recording_console_log: true, // TIP: This is only needed if you aren't configuring session replay using the project settings toggle.
    // ... other options
})
```

Commit message:

Highlight that logs are truncated

contents/docs/session-replay/console-log-recording.mdx, after:

---
title: Console logs recording
availability:
    free: full
    selfServe: full
    enterprise: full
---

PostHog can capture console logs from your application. This is useful for debugging and providing extra context on what is happening in your user's browser environment. 

As console logs can contain sensitive information, we do not capture these logs automatically. You can enable this feature globally from your [project settings](https://us.posthog.com/settings/project-replay#replay) or client-side by setting `enable_recording_console_log: true` in our [JavaScript web library config](/docs/integrate/client/js/#config).

> **Important:** Console logs are recorded if _either_ the project setting **or** the client-side config is set to `true`. Console logs are not recorded if session replay is not enabled.

> **Important:** Individual console logs are truncated at 2000 characters. The rest of the log is not sent to PostHog. We displaying a truncated log message we show `...[Truncated]` 

```js-web
posthog.init('<ph_project_api_key>', {
    api_host: '<ph_instance_address>',
    enable_recording_console_log: true, // TIP: This is only needed if you aren't configuring session replay using the project settings toggle.
    // ... other options
})
```
