contents/docs/session-replay/how-to-control-which-sessions-you-record.mdx, before:

---
title: How to control which sessions you record
availability:
    free: full
    selfServe: full
    enterprise: full
---

import { ProductScreenshot } from 'components/ProductScreenshot'

import ImgFeatureFlagControlLight from '../../images/docs/session-replay/select-replay-control-flag.png'
import ImgSampleConfigLight from '../../images/tutorials/limit-session-recordings/sampling-config.png'
import ImgMinDurationLight from '../../images/tutorials/limit-session-recordings/min-duration.png'

If you want control over which sessions to record:

# With feature flags

You can select a [feature flag](/docs/feature-flags) to control whether to record sessions or not. Recordings will only be collected for users when the flag is enabled for them.

1. Create a boolean flag that you can use to control whether to record sessions or not.
2. Visit your [replay ingestion settings page](https://us.posthog.com/settings/project-replay#replay-ingestion).
3. Select that flag in the "Enable recordings using feature flag" dropdown menu.

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight={ImgFeatureFlagControlLight} 
    alt="Selecting a feature flag to control session recordings" 
    classes="rounded"
/>

# With your own code

1. Set `disable_session_recording: true` in your [config](/docs/integrate/client/js/#config).

2. Manually start recording by calling `posthog.startSessionRecording()`. Similarly, you can stop the recording at any point by calling `posthog.stopSessionRecording()`.

3. **Important** make sure the your domain is added to the [Authorized Domains list](https://app.posthog.com/settings/project-replay#replay-authorized-domains) as otherwise the data will still be ignored as it is ingested by our servers.

For example:

```js-web
posthog.init('<ph_project_api_key>', {
    api_host: '<ph_instance_address>',
    disable_session_recording: true,
    // ... other options
})

// some time later based on a trigger in your system
posthog.startSessionRecording()
```

If you already use this mechanism to control session recordings using feature flags you can link the feature flag (as above) and delete your manual handling code.

# Sampling

You can configure sampling to limit the number of sessions you record for each user. This is useful if you want to record a percentage of sessions for all users. Sampling helps reduce the number of sessions you record, but it doesn’t let you control which sessions are included.

Our recommendation is to start with capturing all sessions (e.g. 100% - the default) or a high sampling rate (e.g. 90% or 95%) and decrease it as needed. This helps you get a sense of how many sessions you’re recording and how much data you’re collecting.

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight={ImgSampleConfigLight} 
    alt="Sampling config shown set to 100% i.e. no sampling" 
    classes="rounded"
/>

Whenever a new session starts after you select a collection below 100%, the browser generates a random number between 0 and 1. If the number is less than the sampling rate (e.g. 0.9 when set to 90%), the session is recorded. If it is greater than the sampling rate, the session is not recorded.

# Minimum duration

You can also set a minimum duration for sessions to be recorded. This is useful if you want to exclude sessions that are too short to be useful. For example, you might want to exclude sessions that are less than 2 seconds long to avoid recording sessions where users quickly bounce off your site.

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight={ImgMinDurationLight} 
    alt="Minimum duration config shown set to 2 seconds" 
    classes="rounded"
/>

The minimum duration is set in seconds. Whenever a new session starts, the browser records the start time. If the minimum duration has passed since the start time, the session data is sent. If it hasn't, the session continues to be buffered in-memory. 

## Limitations

This means that if you set a high minimum duration and your user visits multiple pages each for a short time, you still record the session but miss the beginning. If the user leaves the site before the minimum duration has passed, the session is not recorded.

If you find you are missing the beginning of sessions, you can reduce the minimum duration or use one of our other methods to reduce the number of sessions you record.

# For more examples of controlling which sessions you record 

see our tutorial on [how to only record the sessions you want](/tutorials/limit-session-recordings).

Commit message:

slightly clearer ingestion control docs (#7545)
* slightly clearer ingestion control docs

* Update contents/docs/session-replay/how-to-control-which-sessions-you-record.mdx

* Update contents/docs/session-replay/how-to-control-which-sessions-you-record.mdx

contents/docs/session-replay/how-to-control-which-sessions-you-record.mdx, after:

---
title: How to control which sessions you record
availability:
    free: full
    selfServe: full
    enterprise: full
---

import { ProductScreenshot } from 'components/ProductScreenshot'

import ImgFeatureFlagControlLight from '../../images/docs/session-replay/select-replay-control-flag.png'
import ImgSampleConfigLight from '../../images/tutorials/limit-session-recordings/sampling-config.png'
import ImgMinDurationLight from '../../images/tutorials/limit-session-recordings/min-duration.png'

If you want control over which sessions to record:

# Available on all plans

## With your own code

1. Set `disable_session_recording: true` in your [config](/docs/integrate/client/js/#config).

2. Manually start recording by calling `posthog.startSessionRecording()`. Similarly, you can stop the recording at any point by calling `posthog.stopSessionRecording()`.

3. **Important** make sure the your domain is added to the [Authorized Domains list](https://app.posthog.com/settings/project-replay#replay-authorized-domains) as otherwise the data will still be ignored as it is ingested by our servers.

For example:

```js-web
posthog.init('<ph_project_api_key>', {
    api_host: '<ph_instance_address>',
    disable_session_recording: true,
    // ... other options
})

// some time later based on a trigger in your system
posthog.startSessionRecording()
```

## Billing Limits

You can set a billing limit [using these instructions](https://posthog.com/docs/billing/limits-alerts). We'll stop ingesting recordings when you reach your limit. 

# Available on plans released Jan 2024

We're currently testing these new controls and will release them more widely once those tests are complete. [Contact support to request access to these plans.](https://us.posthog.com/project/2#panel=support%3Asupport%3Asession_replay)

## With feature flags

You can select a [feature flag](/docs/feature-flags) to control whether to record sessions or not. Recordings will only be collected for users when the flag is enabled for them.

1. Create a boolean flag that you can use to control whether to record sessions or not.
2. Visit your [replay ingestion settings page](https://us.posthog.com/settings/project-replay#replay-ingestion).
3. Select that flag in the "Enable recordings using feature flag" dropdown menu.

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight={ImgFeatureFlagControlLight} 
    alt="Selecting a feature flag to control session recordings" 
    classes="rounded"
/>

## Sampling

You can configure sampling to limit the number of sessions you record for each user. This is useful if you want to record a percentage of sessions for all users. Sampling helps reduce the number of sessions you record, but it doesn’t let you control which sessions are included.

Our recommendation is to start with capturing all sessions (e.g. 100% - the default) or a high sampling rate (e.g. 90% or 95%) and decrease it as needed. This helps you get a sense of how many sessions you’re recording and how much data you’re collecting.

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight={ImgSampleConfigLight} 
    alt="Sampling config shown set to 100% i.e. no sampling" 
    classes="rounded"
/>

Whenever a new session starts after you select a collection below 100%, the browser generates a random number between 0 and 1. If the number is less than the sampling rate (e.g. 0.9 when set to 90%), the session is recorded. If it is greater than the sampling rate, the session is not recorded.

## Minimum duration

You can also set a minimum duration for sessions to be recorded. This is useful if you want to exclude sessions that are too short to be useful. For example, you might want to exclude sessions that are less than 2 seconds long to avoid recording sessions where users quickly bounce off your site.

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight={ImgMinDurationLight} 
    alt="Minimum duration config shown set to 2 seconds" 
    classes="rounded"
/>

The minimum duration is set in seconds. Whenever a new session starts, the browser records the start time. If the minimum duration has passed since the start time, the session data is sent. If it hasn't, the session continues to be buffered in-memory. 

### Limitations

This means that if you set a high minimum duration and your user visits multiple pages each for a short time, you still record the session but miss the beginning. If the user leaves the site before the minimum duration has passed, the session is not recorded.

If you find you are missing the beginning of sessions, you can reduce the minimum duration or use one of our other methods to reduce the number of sessions you record.

# For more examples of controlling which sessions you record 

see our tutorial on [how to only record the sessions you want](/tutorials/limit-session-recordings).
