contents/docs/self-host/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Self-host PostHog
sidebarTitle: Overview
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

import Disclaimer from './\_snippets/disclaimer.mdx'
import Sunset from '../self-host/\_snippets/sunset-disclaimer.mdx'

> **This page covers our open-source Docker compose deployment**, which is available under a MIT license, [without guarantee](/docs/self-host/open-source/disclaimer). We [sunset our paid Kubernetes deployment](/blog/sunsetting-helm-support-posthog) and no longer offer support for them.

Our MIT-licensed Docker compose deployment is best suited to internal tools, or evaluating features without vendor approval. It's also great for hobby projects which don't need advanced tools. For all other use cases, we recommend you use [PostHog Cloud](https://app.posthog.com/signup), which comes with a generous free tier.

## Requirements

-   You have deployed a Linux Ubuntu Virtual Machine.
    -   We highly recommend an instance with at least 4GB of RAM to handle any surges in event volume
-   You have set up an `A` record to connect a custom domain to your instance.
    -   PostHog will automatically create an SSL certificate for your domain using LetsEncrypt

New deployments of PostHog's paid open source product using Kubernetes are no longer supported.

## Configuration

There are various ways to configure and personalize your PostHog instance to better suit your needs. In this section you will find all the information you need about settings and options you can configure to get what you need out of PostHog.

-   [Environment variables](/docs/self-host/configure/environment-variables)
-   [Upgrading PostHog](/docs/runbook/upgrading-posthog)
-   [Securing PostHog](/docs/self-host/configure/securing-posthog)
-   [Running behind proxy](/docs/self-host/configure/running-behind-proxy)
-   [Email configuration](/docs/self-host/configure/email)

## Setting up the stack

To get started, all we need to do is run the following command, which will spin up a fresh PostHog deployment for us automatically!

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/posthog/posthog/HEAD/bin/deploy-hobby)"
```

You'll now be asked to provide the release tag you would like to use, as well as the domain you have connected to your instance.

Once everything has been setup, you should see the following message:

```
We will need to wait ~5-10 minutes for things to settle down, migrations to finish, and TLS certs to be issued

⏳ Waiting for PostHog web to boot (this will take a few minutes)
```

PostHog will wait here on a couple of tasks that need to be completed, which should only take a couple minutes.

Once this is complete, you should be able to see your PostHog dashboard on the domain you provided!

> If you notice this step taking longer than 10 minutes, it's best to cancel it with `Ctrl+C` and take a look at the [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section.

### Customizing your deployment (optional)

By default, the `docker-compose.yml` file that gets run comes with a series of default config values that should work for most deployments.
If you need to customize anything, you can take a look at the [full list of environment variables](/docs/self-host/configure/environment-variables).
After making any changes, simply restart the stack with `docker-compose`.

Additionally, if you would like to run a different version of PostHog, you can change the tag for the web, worker, and plugins services.
Check out [here](https://hub.docker.com/r/posthog/posthog) for a list of all available tags.

## Troubleshooting

If you have already run the one-step deployment command above and something went wrong, this section covers a number of steps you can take to debug issues.

### Checking that all containers are running

We can use `docker ps` to check that all of our services are running.

```bash
$ docker ps

CONTAINER ID   IMAGE                               COMMAND     CREATED    STATUS    PORTS   NAMES
21a2f62d6e50   posthog/posthog:release-1.39.1      ...         1m ago     Up 1m     ...     ...
77face12d3e2   posthog/posthog:release-1.39.1      ...         1m ago     Up 1m     ...     ...
3b4bc7394049   posthog/posthog:release-1.39.1      ...         1m ago     Up 1m     ...     ...
03f393c7aa84   caddy:2.6.1                         ...         1m ago     Up 1m     ...     ...
f1060c3d8d73   clickhouse/clickhouse-server:22.3   ...         1m ago     Up 1m     ...     ...
7d2353a6bddf   bitnami/kafka:2.8.1-debian-10-r99   ...         1m ago     Up 1m     ...     ...
72051397040e   zookeeper:3.7.0                     ...         1m ago     Up 1m     ...     ...
ff42ccf14481   redis:6.2.7-alpine                  ...         1m ago     Up 1m     ...     ...
402a0eef69ae   postgres:12-alpine                  ...         1m ago     Up 1m     ...     ...
da0d115dd02e   minio/minio                         ...         1m ago     Up 1m     ...     ...
```

You should see all the same containers as above. If any containers aren't showing up or show that they've restarted recently, it's worth checking their logs to see what the issue is.

### Checking the logs of each container

We can use the following command to check the logs for each of our containers.

```bash
docker logs <container_name>
```

The best place to start looking is in the `web` container, which runs all the database migrations and will produce an error if any have failed.

> Running into issues with deployment? Ask a [question here](/questions) or check out our [Slack](/slack) to get help.

## Upgrading

To upgrade, you can run the `upgrade-hobby` script from the PostHog repo.

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/posthog/posthog/HEAD/bin/upgrade-hobby)"
```

> **Warning:** Before upgrading, make sure you have created back-ups of all your data!

## Migrating

If your server is struggling, you can either increase your instance size or move to [PostHog Cloud](/docs/migrate/migrate-to-cloud#option-1-for-events-migration-self-hosted-migration-tool-alpha) for a hands-off experience

Commit message:

Add note on upgrades (#6751)
* Add note on upgrades

* Update contents/docs/self-host/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: Joe Martin <84011561+joethreepwood@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Joe Martin <84011561+joethreepwood@users.noreply.github.com>

contents/docs/self-host/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Self-host PostHog
sidebarTitle: Overview
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

import Disclaimer from './\_snippets/disclaimer.mdx'
import Sunset from '../self-host/\_snippets/sunset-disclaimer.mdx'

> **This page covers our open-source Docker compose deployment**, which is available under a MIT license, [without guarantee](/docs/self-host/open-source/disclaimer). We [sunset our paid Kubernetes deployment](/blog/sunsetting-helm-support-posthog) and no longer offer support for them.

Our MIT-licensed Docker compose deployment is best suited to internal tools, or evaluating features without vendor approval. It's also great for hobby projects which don't need advanced tools. For all other use cases, we recommend you use [PostHog Cloud](https://app.posthog.com/signup), which comes with a generous free tier.

## Requirements

-   You have deployed a Linux Ubuntu Virtual Machine.
    -   We highly recommend an instance with at least 4GB of RAM to handle any surges in event volume
-   You have set up an `A` record to connect a custom domain to your instance.
    -   PostHog will automatically create an SSL certificate for your domain using LetsEncrypt

New deployments of PostHog's paid open source product using Kubernetes are no longer supported.

## Configuration

There are various ways to configure and personalize your PostHog instance to better suit your needs. In this section you will find all the information you need about settings and options you can configure to get what you need out of PostHog.

-   [Environment variables](/docs/self-host/configure/environment-variables)
-   [Upgrading PostHog](/docs/runbook/upgrading-posthog)
-   [Securing PostHog](/docs/self-host/configure/securing-posthog)
-   [Running behind proxy](/docs/self-host/configure/running-behind-proxy)
-   [Email configuration](/docs/self-host/configure/email)

## Setting up the stack

To get started, all we need to do is run the following command, which will spin up a fresh PostHog deployment for us automatically!

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/posthog/posthog/HEAD/bin/deploy-hobby)"
```

You'll now be asked to provide the release tag you would like to use, as well as the domain you have connected to your instance.

Once everything has been setup, you should see the following message:

```
We will need to wait ~5-10 minutes for things to settle down, migrations to finish, and TLS certs to be issued

⏳ Waiting for PostHog web to boot (this will take a few minutes)
```

PostHog will wait here on a couple of tasks that need to be completed, which should only take a couple minutes.

Once this is complete, you should be able to see your PostHog dashboard on the domain you provided!

> If you notice this step taking longer than 10 minutes, it's best to cancel it with `Ctrl+C` and take a look at the [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section.

### Customizing your deployment (optional)

By default, the `docker-compose.yml` file that gets run comes with a series of default config values that should work for most deployments.
If you need to customize anything, you can take a look at the [full list of environment variables](/docs/self-host/configure/environment-variables).
After making any changes, simply restart the stack with `docker-compose`.

Additionally, if you would like to run a different version of PostHog, you can change the tag for the web, worker, and plugins services.
Check out [here](https://hub.docker.com/r/posthog/posthog) for a list of all available tags.

## Troubleshooting

If you have already run the one-step deployment command above and something went wrong, this section covers a number of steps you can take to debug issues.

### Checking that all containers are running

We can use `docker ps` to check that all of our services are running.

```bash
$ docker ps

CONTAINER ID   IMAGE                               COMMAND     CREATED    STATUS    PORTS   NAMES
21a2f62d6e50   posthog/posthog:release-1.39.1      ...         1m ago     Up 1m     ...     ...
77face12d3e2   posthog/posthog:release-1.39.1      ...         1m ago     Up 1m     ...     ...
3b4bc7394049   posthog/posthog:release-1.39.1      ...         1m ago     Up 1m     ...     ...
03f393c7aa84   caddy:2.6.1                         ...         1m ago     Up 1m     ...     ...
f1060c3d8d73   clickhouse/clickhouse-server:22.3   ...         1m ago     Up 1m     ...     ...
7d2353a6bddf   bitnami/kafka:2.8.1-debian-10-r99   ...         1m ago     Up 1m     ...     ...
72051397040e   zookeeper:3.7.0                     ...         1m ago     Up 1m     ...     ...
ff42ccf14481   redis:6.2.7-alpine                  ...         1m ago     Up 1m     ...     ...
402a0eef69ae   postgres:12-alpine                  ...         1m ago     Up 1m     ...     ...
da0d115dd02e   minio/minio                         ...         1m ago     Up 1m     ...     ...
```

You should see all the same containers as above. If any containers aren't showing up or show that they've restarted recently, it's worth checking their logs to see what the issue is.

### Checking the logs of each container

We can use the following command to check the logs for each of our containers.

```bash
docker logs <container_name>
```

The best place to start looking is in the `web` container, which runs all the database migrations and will produce an error if any have failed.

> Running into issues with deployment? Ask a [question here](/questions) or check out our [Slack](/slack) to get help.

## Upgrading

To upgrade, you can run the `upgrade-hobby` script from the PostHog repo.

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/posthog/posthog/HEAD/bin/upgrade-hobby)"
```

> **Warning:** Before upgrading, make sure you have created back-ups of all your data!

Our recommendation is to keep your PostHog deployment up-to-date. While we avoid breaking changes wherever possible we may sometimes deprecate or add features that require you to update to the latest version. You can track our latest updates in [the changelog](/changelog).

## Migrating

If your server is struggling, you can either increase your instance size or move to [PostHog Cloud](/docs/migrate/migrate-to-cloud#option-1-for-events-migration-self-hosted-migration-tool-alpha) for a hands-off experience
