contents/docs/integrate/feature-flags-code/_snippets/feature-flags-code-go.mdx, before:

There are 2 steps to implement feature flags in Go:

### Step 1: Evaluate the feature flag value

#### Boolean feature flags

```go
isMyFlagEnabled, err := client.IsFeatureEnabled(
            FeatureFlagPayload{
                Key:        "flag-key",
                DistinctId: "distinct_id_of_your_user",
            })

if isMyFlagEnabled == true {
    // Do something differently for this user
}
```

#### Multivariate feature flags

```go
enabledVariant, err := client.GetFeatureFlag(
            FeatureFlagPayload{
                Key:        "flag-key",
                DistinctId: "distinct_id_of_your_user",
            })

if enabledVariant == "variant-key" { // replace 'variant-key' with the key of your variant
    // Do something differently for this user
}
```

import IncludePropertyInEvents from "./include-feature-flag-property-in-backend-events.mdx" 

<IncludePropertyInEvents />

There are two methods you can use to include feature flag information in your events:

#### Method 1: Include the `$feature/feature_flag_name` property

 In the event properties, include `$feature/feature_flag_name: variant_key`:

```go
client.Enqueue(posthog.Capture{
  DistinctId: "distinct_id_of_your_user",
  Event:      "event_name",
  Properties: posthog.NewProperties().
    Set("$feature/feature-flag-key", "variant-key"), // replace feature-flag-key with your flag key. Replace 'variant-key' with the key of your variant
})
```

### Method 2: Set `SendFeatureFlags` to `true`

The `capture()` method has an optional argument `SendFeatureFlags`, which is set to `false` by default. By setting this to `true`, feature flag information will automatically be sent with the event.

Note that by doing this, PostHog will make an additional request to fetch feature flag information before capturing the event. So this method is only recommended if you don't mind the extra API call and delay.

```go
client.Enqueue(posthog.Capture{
  DistinctId: "distinct_id_of_your_user",
  Event:      "event_name",
  SendFeatureFlags: true,
})
```

### Fetching all flags for a user

You can fetch all flag values for a single user by calling `GetAllFlags()`.

This is useful when you need to fetch multiple flag values and don't want to make multiple requests.

```go  
featureVariants, _ := client.GetAllFlags(FeatureFlagPayloadNoKey{
        DistinctId: "distinct_id_of_your_user",
})
```

import GoOverrideServerProperties from './override-server-properties/go.mdx'

<GoOverrideServerProperties />

Commit message:

Docs - Add feature flag called argument to docs (#7991)
* add feature flag called

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Neil Kakkar <neilkakkar@gmail.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Neil Kakkar <neilkakkar@gmail.com>

contents/docs/integrate/feature-flags-code/_snippets/feature-flags-code-go.mdx, after:

There are 2 steps to implement feature flags in Go:

### Step 1: Evaluate the feature flag value

#### Boolean feature flags

```go
isMyFlagEnabled, err := client.IsFeatureEnabled(
            FeatureFlagPayload{
                Key:        "flag-key",
                DistinctId: "distinct_id_of_your_user",
            })

if isMyFlagEnabled == true {
    // Do something differently for this user
}
```

#### Multivariate feature flags

```go
enabledVariant, err := client.GetFeatureFlag(
            FeatureFlagPayload{
                Key:        "flag-key",
                DistinctId: "distinct_id_of_your_user",
            })

if enabledVariant == "variant-key" { // replace 'variant-key' with the key of your variant
    // Do something differently for this user
}
```

import IncludePropertyInEvents from "./include-feature-flag-property-in-backend-events.mdx" 

<IncludePropertyInEvents />

There are two methods you can use to include feature flag information in your events:

#### Method 1: Include the `$feature/feature_flag_name` property

 In the event properties, include `$feature/feature_flag_name: variant_key`:

```go
client.Enqueue(posthog.Capture{
  DistinctId: "distinct_id_of_your_user",
  Event:      "event_name",
  Properties: posthog.NewProperties().
    Set("$feature/feature-flag-key", "variant-key"), // replace feature-flag-key with your flag key. Replace 'variant-key' with the key of your variant
})
```

### Method 2: Set `SendFeatureFlags` to `true`

The `capture()` method has an optional argument `SendFeatureFlags`, which is set to `false` by default. By setting this to `true`, feature flag information will automatically be sent with the event.

Note that by doing this, PostHog will make an additional request to fetch feature flag information before capturing the event. So this method is only recommended if you don't mind the extra API call and delay.

```go
client.Enqueue(posthog.Capture{
  DistinctId: "distinct_id_of_your_user",
  Event:      "event_name",
  SendFeatureFlags: true,
})
```

### Fetching all flags for a user

You can fetch all flag values for a single user by calling `GetAllFlags()`.

This is useful when you need to fetch multiple flag values and don't want to make multiple requests.

```go  
featureVariants, _ := client.GetAllFlags(FeatureFlagPayloadNoKey{
        DistinctId: "distinct_id_of_your_user",
})
```

### Sending `$feature_flag_called` events

Capturing `$feature_flag_called` events enable PostHog to know when a flag was accessed by a user and thus provide [analytics and insights](/docs/product-analytics/insights) on the flag. By default, we send a these event when:

1. You call `GetFeatureFlag()` or `IsFeatureEnabled()`, AND 
2. It's a new user, or the value of the flag has changed. 

> *Note:* Tracking whether it's a new user or if a flag value has changed happens in a local cache. This means that if you reinitialize the PostHog client, the cache resets as well – causing `$feature_flag_called` events to be sent again when calling `GetFeatureFlag` or `IsFeatureEnabled`. PostHog is built to handle this, and so duplicate `$feature_flag_called` events won't affect your analytics.

You can disable automatically capturing `$feature_flag_called` events. For example, when you don't need the analytics, or it's being called at such a high volume that sending events slows things down.

To disable it, set the `SendFeatureFlagEvents` argument in your function call, like so:

```go
isMyFlagEnabled, err := client.IsFeatureEnabled(
            FeatureFlagPayload{
                Key:                    "flag-key",
                DistinctId:             "distinct_id_of_your_user",
                SendFeatureFlagEvents:  true
            })
```

import GoOverrideServerProperties from './override-server-properties/go.mdx'

<GoOverrideServerProperties />
