contents/docs/integrate/feature-flags-code/_snippets/feature-flags-code-python.mdx, before:

There are 2 steps to implement feature flags in Python:

### Step 1: Evaluate the feature flag value

#### Boolean feature flags

```python
is_my_flag_enabled = posthog.feature_enabled('flag-key', 'distinct_id_of_your_user')

if is_my_flag_enabled:
    # Do something differently for this user
    # Optional: fetch the payload
    matched_flag_payload = posthog.get_feature_flag_payload('flag-key', 'distinct_id_of_your_user')
```

#### Multivariate feature flags

```python
enabled_variant = posthog.get_feature_flag('flag-key', 'distinct_id_of_your_user')

if enabled_variant == 'variant-key': # replace 'variant-key' with the key of your variant
    # Do something differently for this user
    # Optional: fetch the payload
    matched_flag_payload = posthog.get_feature_flag_payload('flag-key', 'distinct_id_of_your_user')
```

import IncludePropertyInEvents from "./include-feature-flag-property-in-backend-events.mdx" 

<IncludePropertyInEvents />

There are two methods you can use to include feature flag information in your events:

#### Method 1: Include the `$feature/feature_flag_name` property

 In the event properties, include `$feature/feature_flag_name: variant_key`:

```python
posthog.capture(
    'distinct_id_of_your_user',
    'event_name',
    {
        '$feature/feature-flag-key': 'variant-key' # replace feature-flag-key with your flag key. Replace 'variant-key' with the key of your variant
    }
)
```

#### Method 2: Set `send_feature_flags` to `true`

The `capture()` method has an optional argument `send_feature_flags`, which is set to `false` by default. By setting this to `true`, feature flag information will automatically be sent with the event.

Note that by doing this, PostHog will make an additional request to fetch feature flag information before capturing the event. So this method is only recommended if you don't mind the extra API call and delay.

```python
posthog.capture(
    'distinct_id_of_your_user',
    'event_name',
    send_feature_flags=True
)
```

### Fetching all flags for a user

You can fetch all flag values for a single user by calling `get_all_flags()` or `get_all_flags_and_payloads()`.

This is useful when you need to fetch multiple flag values and don't want to make multiple requests.

```python  
posthog.get_all_flags('distinct_id_of_your_user')
posthog.get_all_flags_and_payloads('distinct_id_of_your_user') 
```

import PythonOverrideServerProperties from './override-server-properties/python.mdx'

<PythonOverrideServerProperties />

Commit message:

Add feature_flag_called docs for python (#7580)
Co-authored-by: Lior539 <lneuner@gmail.com>

contents/docs/integrate/feature-flags-code/_snippets/feature-flags-code-python.mdx, after:

There are 2 steps to implement feature flags in Python:

### Step 1: Evaluate the feature flag value

#### Boolean feature flags

```python
is_my_flag_enabled = posthog.feature_enabled('flag-key', 'distinct_id_of_your_user')

if is_my_flag_enabled:
    # Do something differently for this user
    # Optional: fetch the payload
    matched_flag_payload = posthog.get_feature_flag_payload('flag-key', 'distinct_id_of_your_user')
```

#### Multivariate feature flags

```python
enabled_variant = posthog.get_feature_flag('flag-key', 'distinct_id_of_your_user')

if enabled_variant == 'variant-key': # replace 'variant-key' with the key of your variant
    # Do something differently for this user
    # Optional: fetch the payload
    matched_flag_payload = posthog.get_feature_flag_payload('flag-key', 'distinct_id_of_your_user')
```

import IncludePropertyInEvents from "./include-feature-flag-property-in-backend-events.mdx" 

<IncludePropertyInEvents />

There are two methods you can use to include feature flag information in your events:

#### Method 1: Include the `$feature/feature_flag_name` property

 In the event properties, include `$feature/feature_flag_name: variant_key`:

```python
posthog.capture(
    'distinct_id_of_your_user',
    'event_name',
    {
        '$feature/feature-flag-key': 'variant-key' # replace feature-flag-key with your flag key. Replace 'variant-key' with the key of your variant
    }
)
```

#### Method 2: Set `send_feature_flags` to `true`

The `capture()` method has an optional argument `send_feature_flags`, which is set to `false` by default. By setting this to `true`, feature flag information will automatically be sent with the event.

Note that by doing this, PostHog will make an additional request to fetch feature flag information before capturing the event. So this method is only recommended if you don't mind the extra API call and delay.

```python
posthog.capture(
    'distinct_id_of_your_user',
    'event_name',
    send_feature_flags=True
)
```


### Sending `$feature_flag_called` events

Capturing`$feature_flag_called` events enable PostHog to know when a flag was accessed by a user and thus provide [analytics and insights](/docs/product-analytics/insights) on the flag. By default, we send a these event when:

1. You call `posthog.get_feature_flag()` or `posthog.is_feature_enabled()`, AND 
2. It's a new user, or the value of the flag has changed. 

> *Note:* Tracking whether it's a new user, or whether the flag value is changed happens in a local cache, which means if you reinitialize the PostHog client, this cache will reset as well, and can end up sending events again for old users as well. This is not a problem though and it won't affect your analytics.

You can disable automatically capturing `$feature_flag_called` events. For example, when you don't need the analytics, or it's being called at such a high volume that sending events slows things down.

To disable it, set the `send_feature_flag_events` argument in your function call, like so:

```python
is_my_flag_enabled = posthog.feature_enabled('flag-key', 'distinct_id_of_your_user', send_feature_flag_events=False)
# will not send `$feature_flag_called` events
```

### Fetching all flags for a user

You can fetch all flag values for a single user by calling `get_all_flags()` or `get_all_flags_and_payloads()`.

This is useful when you need to fetch multiple flag values and don't want to make multiple requests.

```python  
posthog.get_all_flags('distinct_id_of_your_user')
posthog.get_all_flags_and_payloads('distinct_id_of_your_user') 
```

import PythonOverrideServerProperties from './override-server-properties/python.mdx'

<PythonOverrideServerProperties />
