contents/handbook/small-teams/people/index.mdx, before:

---
title: People & ops team
sidebar: Handbook
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: false
---

<TeamMembers />

## Mission

<Mission />

## Objectives & key results

## Q4 2023

<Objectives />

## Responsibilities

Our people team works across talent, people, operations, and culture. This is what we care about:

- Setting a very high bar for bringing people on board. We are always looking for _the_ best people in their field, or people on their way to becoming exceptional at their jobs. This is so important to us, it's enshrined in our [values](/handbook/company/values#talent-compounds).
- Supporting our team throughout the entire employee lifecycle - from [making an offer](/handbook/people/compensation), to [onboarding](/handbook/people/onboarding) and [progression](/handbook/people/career-progression), [time off](/handbook/people/time-off), and eventually [parting ways](/handbook/people/offboarding). 
- We create light-touch initiatives, systems, and processes that allow PostHog to act fast and [scale iteratively](/handbook/company/culture#iteration) 
- Building a [diverse and inclusive culture](/handbook/company/diversity) with a strong sense of belonging is at the heart of everything we do.

This is the list of who owns what on the team:

|  |  | **Responsible** |
|---|---|:---:|
| **People Ops** |  |  |
|  | UK & US Payroll | Kendal |
|  | Deel Payroll | Kendal |
|  | UK & US Pension/401k | Kendal |
|  | UK & US Benefits | Kendal |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | Offer Letters | Coua |
|  | Onboarding & Contracts | Kendal |
|  | State Registrations | Charles |
|  | Managing Merch | Kendal |
|  | Compensation Reviews | Charles |
|  | Grievance & Disciplinary Process | Charles |
|  | Termination Decisions | Charles |
|  | Termination Process | Charles |
|  | Offboarding Process | Kendal |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
| **Recruiting** |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | Sourcing | Coua |
|  | Pipeline Management | Coua |
|  | Interview Scheduling | Coua |
|  | Offer Decisions | Coua |
|  | Referral Bonuses | Coua |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
| **Culture** |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | Team Celebrations | Kendal |
|  | Offsites | Kendal |
|  | Quarterly Surveys | Charles |
|  | DE&I Initiatives | Charles |
|  | Monthly Team 1-1s | Charles |
|  | Passion Talks/Life Stories | Kendal |
|  | Manager Support | Charles |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
| **Finance** |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | Accounting - US | Charles |
|  | Accounting - UK | Charles |
|  | Financial Planning/Review | Charles |
|  | Board Reporting | Charles |
|  | Insurances | Kendal |
|  | Chasing Receipts/Invoices | Kendal |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
| **Legal** |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | Commercial Agreements | Charles |
|  | Fundraising Agreements | Charles |
|  | IP & Confidentiality | Charles |
|  | Privacy & Compliance | Charles |
|  | Share options | Charles |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
| **Systems** |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | Zendesk | Charles |
|  | Equipment Management | Kendal |
|  | Accounts Management | Charles |
|  | Mail Monitoring | Kendal |

## Customer

Every PostHog team member, as well as current, future and past candidates. 

## Team 1-1s

On a monthly basis, Charles offers every team member a totally optional, informal check-in. The format isn’t strict, and we usually talk about how you are doing, what you think we could be doing better as a company, any particular worries/concerns you have, random cool ideas you just want to riff on, etc. Things that have come up in recent all hands or team surveys are usually topics we can go deep on as well. 

These conversations are confidential by default - Charles doesn’t share their content with anyone else unless explicitly asked to.

## Slack channels

- [#team-people-and-ops](https://posthog.slack.com/messages/team-people-and-ops) - internally public, default for ops & people discussions
- [#private-people-ops](https://posthog.slack.com/messages/private-people-ops) - internally confidential, for minority of issues, e.g. salaries, candidate offers

## Tools

Here is a summary of some of the tools we've found most effective for getting the job done. You can read more about why we chose them [here](https://posthog.com/blog/startup-ops-toolkit). Grace and/or Charles are top level admins for all of these, should you need access. 

### People Ops, Recruiting, and Payroll

- [Ashby](https://ashbyhq.com) - our ATS for managing all recruitment (you can find their full documentation [here](https://www.notion.so/Ashby-University-efd04871f5554358ada837de165070ca).
- [Gusto](https://www.gusto.com/) - platform for managing all permanent US employees, including contracts, healthcare and payroll. 
  - We use [Middesk](https://www.middesk.com/) to manage all our state registrations and filings on our behalf. 
  - For managing our US 401(k) we use [Pentegra](https://www.pentegra.com/), which requires a manual [monthly reporting process](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hgCDpI280xbor75LyGUFmwjr_AVx3n-F57Iz_-YhNaA/edit?usp=sharing). 
    - We are currently migrating to Guideline, which will take effect on Feb 1st 2023. 
- [Deel](https://www.letsdeel.com/) - platform for managing all team members outside the US and UK (using their EOR service in certain countries). 
- UK contracts are currently done manually in Google Drive, with payroll also being run manually - our accountants load up payments in Revolut for us to approve every month. All templates are stored in the _Legal Docs [CONFIDENTIAL]_ shared Google Drive, in the _Team_ folder. 
- US contracts are also done manually in Google Drive. 
- To avoid emailing PDFs back and forth forever, we use [PandaDoc](https://www.pandadoc.com/).
- [PTO by Deel](https://www.tryroots.io/pto) - Slack app for booking all types of time off. 
- [CharlieHR](https://www.charliehr.com/) - used to store all team personal details, documents, and pay. We are in the process of migrating this to Deel HR.

### Finance and Banking

Details can be found in `company-internal` [repo here](https://github.com/PostHog/company-internal/tree/master/finance) 

#### Everything Else

- [LTSE Equity](https://equity.ltse.com/) is where we manage our cap table. 
- We use [Embroker](https://www.embroker.com/) for all of our insurance coverage, including D&O, Cyber Liability, and Travel. 
- We track everything in [GitHub](https://github.com/) from maintaining this handbook to sprint planning. You can find the People & Ops project board [here](https://github.com/orgs/PostHog/projects/2?fullscreen=true).

Commit message:

Change people & ops responsibilities to include Fraser (#7208)

contents/handbook/small-teams/people/index.mdx, after:

---
title: People & ops team
sidebar: Handbook
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: false
---

<TeamMembers />

## Mission

<Mission />

## Objectives & key results

## Q4 2023

<Objectives />

## Responsibilities

Our people team works across talent, people, operations, and culture. This is what we care about:

- Setting a very high bar for bringing people on board. We are always looking for _the_ best people in their field, or people on their way to becoming exceptional at their jobs. This is so important to us, it's enshrined in our [values](/handbook/company/values#talent-compounds).
- Supporting our team throughout the entire employee lifecycle - from [making an offer](/handbook/people/compensation), to [onboarding](/handbook/people/onboarding) and [progression](/handbook/people/career-progression), [time off](/handbook/people/time-off), and eventually [parting ways](/handbook/people/offboarding). 
- We create light-touch initiatives, systems, and processes that allow PostHog to act fast and [scale iteratively](/handbook/company/culture#iteration) 
- Building a [diverse and inclusive culture](/handbook/company/diversity) with a strong sense of belonging is at the heart of everything we do.

This is the list of who owns what on the team:

|  |  | **Responsible** |
|---|---|:---:|
| **People Ops** |  |  |
|  | UK & US Payroll | Kendal |
|  | Deel Payroll | Kendal |
|  | UK Benefits & Pension | Kendal |
|  | US Benefits & 401k | Coua |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | Offer Letters | Coua |
|  | Onboarding & Contracts | Kendal |
|  | State Registrations | Fraser |
|  | Managing Merch | Kendal |
|  | Compensation Reviews | Charles |
|  | Grievance & Disciplinary Process | Charles |
|  | Termination Process | Fraser |
|  | Offboarding Process | Kendal |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
| **Recruiting** |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | Sourcing | Coua |
|  | Pipeline Management | Coua |
|  | Interview Scheduling | Coua |
|  | Offer Decisions | Coua |
|  | Referral Bonuses | Coua |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
| **Culture** |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | Team Celebrations | Kendal |
|  | Offsites | Kendal |
|  | Quarterly Surveys | Charles |
|  | DE&I Initiatives | Charles |
|  | Monthly Team 1-1s | Charles |
|  | Life Stories | Kendal |
|  | Manager Support | Charles |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
| **Finance** |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | Accounting - US | Fraser |
|  | Accounting - UK | Fraser |
|  | Financial Planning/Review | Charles |
|  | Board Reporting | Charles |
|  | Insurances | Kendal |
|  | Chasing Receipts/Invoices | Kendal |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
| **Legal** |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | Commercial Agreements | Fraser |
|  | Fundraising Agreements | Charles |
|  | IP & Confidentiality | Fraser |
|  | Privacy & Compliance | Fraser |
|  | Share options | Fraser |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
| **Systems** |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | Equipment Management | Kendal |
|  | Accounts Management | Fraser |
|  | Mail Monitoring | Kendal |

## Customer

Every PostHog team member, as well as current, future and past candidates. 

## Team 1-1s

On a monthly basis, Charles does 1-1s with:
- All managers
- All new joiners for their first 3 months

For everyone else, Charles is happy to chat any time about literally anything you like! 

These conversations are confidential by default - Charles doesn’t share their content with anyone else unless explicitly asked to.

## Slack channels

- [#team-people-and-ops](https://posthog.slack.com/messages/team-people-and-ops) - internally public, default for ops & people discussions
- [#private-people-ops](https://posthog.slack.com/messages/private-people-ops) - internally confidential, for minority of issues, e.g. salaries, candidate offers

## Tools

Here is a summary of some of the tools we've found most effective for getting the job done. You can read more about why we chose them [here](https://posthog.com/blog/startup-ops-toolkit). Grace and/or Charles are top level admins for all of these, should you need access. 

### People Ops, Recruiting, and Payroll

- [Ashby](https://ashbyhq.com) - our ATS for managing all recruitment (you can find their full documentation [here](https://www.notion.so/Ashby-University-efd04871f5554358ada837de165070ca).
- [Gusto](https://www.gusto.com/) - platform for managing all permanent US employees, including contracts, healthcare and payroll. 
  - We use [Middesk](https://www.middesk.com/) to manage all our state registrations and filings on our behalf. 
  - For managing our US 401(k) we use [Pentegra](https://www.pentegra.com/), which requires a manual [monthly reporting process](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hgCDpI280xbor75LyGUFmwjr_AVx3n-F57Iz_-YhNaA/edit?usp=sharing). 
    - We are currently migrating to Guideline, which will take effect on Feb 1st 2023. 
- [Deel](https://www.letsdeel.com/) - platform for managing all team members outside the US and UK (using their EOR service in certain countries). 
- UK contracts are currently done manually in Google Drive, with payroll also being run manually - our accountants load up payments in Revolut for us to approve every month. All templates are stored in the _Legal Docs [CONFIDENTIAL]_ shared Google Drive, in the _Team_ folder. 
- US contracts are also done manually in Google Drive. 
- To avoid emailing PDFs back and forth forever, we use [PandaDoc](https://www.pandadoc.com/).
- [PTO by Deel](https://www.tryroots.io/pto) - Slack app for booking all types of time off. 
- [Deel](https://www.deel.com/) - used to store all team personal details, documents, and pay. We are in the process of migrating this to Deel HR.

### Finance and Banking

Details can be found in `company-internal` [repo here](https://github.com/PostHog/company-internal/tree/master/finance) 

#### Everything Else

- [LTSE Equity](https://equity.ltse.com/) is where we manage our cap table. Orrick manage this on our behalf. 
- We use [Embroker](https://www.embroker.com/) for all of our insurance coverage, including D&O, Cyber Liability, and Travel. 
- We track everything in [GitHub](https://github.com/) from maintaining this handbook to sprint planning. You can find the People & Ops project board [here](https://github.com/orgs/PostHog/projects/2?fullscreen=true).
