contents/docs/support-options.md, before:

---
title: Support options
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

> **Have a question?** Ask anything PostHog-related at [posthog.com/questions](/questions).

PostHog provides a free basic level of support to everyone via the community, with additional support options available for paying customers depending on product. 

<div className="overflow-x-auto -mx-5 px-5">
<table className="text-sm">
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Support type</th>
<th>Open Source</th>
<th>PostHog Cloud</th>
<th>Enterprise</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><a href="#official-support">Official Support</a></td>
<td></td>
<td>✔️</td>
<td>✔️</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#dedicated-slack">Dedicated Slack</a></td>
<td></td>
<td>Minimum $2k/month spend</td>
<td>✔️</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#training-sessions">Training sessions</a></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>✔️</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#configuration-assistance">Configuration assistance</a></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>✔️</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#terms-and-conditions">Terms and Conditions</a></td>
<td>MIT Licence</td>
<td>Standard</td>
<td>MSA</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#security-assessment">Security assessment</a></td>
<td>Standard assessment provided</td>
<td>Standard assessment provided</td>
<td>✔️</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#bespoke-pricing">Bespoke pricing</a></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>✔️</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#payment-via-invoicing">Payment via invoicing</a></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>✔️</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

## Official Support

There are three ways to get official support:

* Open a ticket through our [in-app support modal](https://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal).
* Ask a community question directly in the Docs at the bottom of the page, or check out [our database](/questions) of previously answered questions.
* Open an bug report on [our main Github repo](https://github.com/posthog/posthog).

We are very grateful to people that do this the other way around and help answer others' questions. You may just end up with some [merch](https://merch.posthog.com/) for particularly good answers :)

## In-app Support

Anybody using PostHog Cloud can raise a bug, submit feedback or otherwise ask for help via the help menu in the top right hand corner of the UI. Your request will be routed to the correct team and we'll get back to you via email for further help if needed.

## Dedicated Slack

Our preference for paid customers is to support them through a private Slack channel. This helps us all get on the same side - and it's just more fun for everyone.

We will select the right team for you at PostHog. This typically includes the Customer Success and Engineering teams.

[These are the kinds of people](/team) you'd be working with!

We do *not* have non-technical support people who triage issues. We directly connect you to people who are building PostHog. This has scaled to support thousands of companies very effectively, and we always aim to productize solutions to problems.

From your side, it's important you bring your A team. We recommend you add:

* A stakeholder from engineering
* A stakeholder from data engineering / data analysis
* A stakeholder from product management
* 2-3 power users
* A stakeholder from customer success (if relevant)
* A stakeholder from sales (if relevant)

It's best not to let your group get much bigger as it can create a lot of noise. We don't support you adding several end users of PostHog to this group - you will need to triage your own issues first.

## Training sessions

We run a set number of group training sessions with your end users. We will walk them through how to make your product more successful.

These are useful at first for the initial adoption of PostHog. As you organically add more people to the platform, we can make sure everyone understands how to derive the most value.

## Configuration assistance

We help you define meaningful dashboards for your company and regularly check in that the configuration of PostHog is helping you improve your product.

We ask to be a user in your PostHog team so we can suggest ways to get more value out of the product. These are some of the ways we can help you:

* Build basic dashboards that cover Acquisition, Activation, Retention, Referral and Revenue
* Build deep dive dashboards to help you understand changes in the above
* Give guidance on using Session Recording, Heatmaps and Paths, depending on your product
* Help you understand the impact on your core metrics of changes deployed behind Feature Flags
* Help you run Experiments 

## Terms and Conditions

PostHog Open Source is [MIT-licensed](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-foss/blob/master/LICENSE).

PostHog Cloud Editions have [standard terms](/terms).

### Master Services Agreement (MSA)

If you need non-standard terms or Service Level Agreements (SLAs), for example, we offer MSAs to Enterprise customers only. These cover things like:

* Bespoke pricing
* Custom Service Level Agreements
* Custom legal changes if you have special requirements
* Custom information security requirements

While we do not automatically accept all product changes and requests, we are willing to review these for our Enterprise product only. For Open Source, Cloud and Scale, we do not make contractual commitments to make product changes. 

## Security assessment

We have an extensive range of robust internal [security policies](/handbook/company/security) that apply to all products and cover several requirements around GDPR, SOC 2, HIPAA and CCPA. 

For Paid customers, we are happy to complete your own security assessment. This can take the form of us enabling your team internally (who are responsible for information security since they are hosting the data), or it can mean us just answering questions and adapting our policies if needed.

## Bespoke pricing

We can offer bespoke pricing for Enterprise customers only.

For example, we have been asked if we can offer a set fee with a large usage cap rather than usage-based pricing, in order to make budget approval simpler. 

## Payment via invoicing

We only take payments via credit or debit card, processed via Stripe. 

For companies with invoices over $2,000/month, we are able to support manual invoicing if needed. Just email sales@posthog.com and we'll set this up.

Commit message:

Add support severity description (#7539)
* Added support severity levels to customer-facing doc

* Documented severity levels and internal response targets

* Switched role for High priority/severity tickets

contents/docs/support-options.md, after:

---
title: Support options
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

> **Have a question?** Ask anything PostHog-related at [posthog.com/questions](/questions).

PostHog provides a free basic level of support to everyone via the community, with additional support options available for paying customers depending on product. 

<div className="overflow-x-auto -mx-5 px-5">
<table className="text-sm">
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Support type</th>
<th>Open Source</th>
<th>PostHog Cloud</th>
<th>Enterprise</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><a href="#official-support">Official Support</a></td>
<td></td>
<td>✔️</td>
<td>✔️</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#dedicated-slack">Dedicated Slack</a></td>
<td></td>
<td>Minimum $2k/month spend</td>
<td>✔️</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#training-sessions">Training sessions</a></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>✔️</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#configuration-assistance">Configuration assistance</a></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>✔️</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#terms-and-conditions">Terms and Conditions</a></td>
<td>MIT Licence</td>
<td>Standard</td>
<td>MSA</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#security-assessment">Security assessment</a></td>
<td>Standard assessment provided</td>
<td>Standard assessment provided</td>
<td>✔️</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#bespoke-pricing">Bespoke pricing</a></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>✔️</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#payment-via-invoicing">Payment via invoicing</a></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>✔️</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

## Official Support

There are three ways to get official support:

* Open a ticket through our [in-app support modal](https://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal).
* Ask a community question directly in the Docs at the bottom of the page, or check out [our database](/questions) of previously answered questions.
* Open an bug report on [our main Github repo](https://github.com/posthog/posthog).

We are very grateful to people that do this the other way around and help answer others' questions. You may just end up with some [merch](https://merch.posthog.com/) for particularly good answers :)

## In-app Support

Anybody using PostHog Cloud can raise a bug, submit feedback or otherwise ask for help via the help menu in the top right hand corner of the UI. Your request will be routed to the correct team and we'll get back to you via email for further help if needed.

### Severity Levels

In order to prioritise our responses we ask you to indicate the impact an issue is having for you.  When creating a ticket you'll be asked to choose a severity level from one of the following:

| **Level** | **Impact**                                                                                        | **Examples**                                                                                                                                         |
|-----------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Critical  | PostHog is completely unavailable or or other significant business impact                         | <ul> <li>PostHog Cloud UI is unavailable</li> <li>Feature Flags API not responding</li> <li>Data loss</li> <li>Security breach</li> </ul>            |
| High      | Key features of the product are unavailable, causing major inconvenience or limited functionality | <ul><li>Dashboards not loading</li><li>Session Replays not loading</li><li>Data Ingestion is delayed</li><li>Feature Flag targeting issues</li></ul> |
| Medium    | There are issues with the product, but the impact is limited                                      | <ul><li>Insights are slow to load</li><li>Session replays have missing information</li></ul>                                                         |
| Low       | Requests that have minimal impact on the usability of the product                                 | <ul><li>Feature requests</li><li>Usage questions</li></ul>                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                           |                                                                        |                                                                                                 |
## Dedicated Slack

For certain paid customers we support you through a private Slack channel. This helps us all get on the same side - and it's just more fun for everyone.

We will select the right team for you at PostHog. This typically includes the Customer Success and Engineering teams.

[These are the kinds of people](/team) you'd be working with!

We do *not* have non-technical support people who triage issues. We directly connect you to people who are building PostHog. This has scaled to support thousands of companies very effectively, and we always aim to productize solutions to problems.

From your side, it's important you bring your A team. We recommend you add:

* A stakeholder from engineering
* A stakeholder from data engineering / data analysis
* A stakeholder from product management
* 2-3 power users
* A stakeholder from customer success (if relevant)
* A stakeholder from sales (if relevant)

It's best not to let your group get much bigger as it can create a lot of noise.

## Training sessions

We run a set number of group training sessions with your end users. We will walk them through how to make your product more successful.

These are useful at first for the initial adoption of PostHog. As you organically add more people to the platform, we can make sure everyone understands how to derive the most value.

## Configuration assistance

We help you define meaningful dashboards for your company and regularly check in that the configuration of PostHog is helping you improve your product.

We ask to be a user in your PostHog team so we can suggest ways to get more value out of the product. These are some of the ways we can help you:

* Build basic dashboards that cover Acquisition, Activation, Retention, Referral and Revenue
* Build deep dive dashboards to help you understand changes in the above
* Give guidance on using Session Recording, Heatmaps and Paths, depending on your product
* Help you understand the impact on your core metrics of changes deployed behind Feature Flags
* Help you run Experiments 

## Terms and Conditions

PostHog Open Source is [MIT-licensed](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-foss/blob/master/LICENSE).

PostHog Cloud Editions have [standard terms](/terms).

### Master Services Agreement (MSA)

If you need non-standard terms or Service Level Agreements (SLAs), for example, we offer MSAs to Enterprise customers only. These cover things like:

* Bespoke pricing
* Custom Service Level Agreements
* Custom legal changes if you have special requirements
* Custom information security requirements

While we do not automatically accept all product changes and requests, we are willing to review these for our Enterprise product only. For Open Source, Cloud and Scale, we do not make contractual commitments to make product changes. 

## Security assessment

We have an extensive range of robust internal [security policies](/handbook/company/security) that apply to all products and cover several requirements around GDPR, SOC 2, HIPAA and CCPA. 

For Paid customers, we are happy to complete your own security assessment. This can take the form of us enabling your team internally (who are responsible for information security since they are hosting the data), or it can mean us just answering questions and adapting our policies if needed.

## Bespoke pricing

We can offer bespoke pricing for Enterprise customers only.

For example, we have been asked if we can offer a set fee with a large usage cap rather than usage-based pricing, in order to make budget approval simpler. 

## Payment via invoicing

We only take payments via credit or debit card, processed via Stripe. 

For companies with invoices over $2,000/month, we are able to support manual invoicing if needed. Just email sales@posthog.com and we'll set this up.
