contents/handbook/small-teams/feature-success/objectives.mdx, before:

As always, reliability is the #1 unwritten goal: Making sure feature flags are reliable trumps every other objective.


### Objective: Make it easier for engineers to analyze the success of a feature

Last quarter, we built the foundation for feature success: All sorts of different tools that people can use to help determine success.

This quarter is about bringing it all together and making it seamless to connect these features together.

This will involve a few things:
  - Validate every component is useful on its own (flag autocapture, surveys, dashboard templates on flags, and early access management).
  - Integrate every pair of components together: i.e. validate every pair of the above components can multiply usefulness over a single component
  - Integrate all components together in one place: A notebook template that brings feature success together.

We would have achieved this objective when
- People start their analysing journey with ‘feature success’, rather than an insight/dashboard
- We publish a case study of a customer loving feature success
- This feature itself helps us answer if it's successful


### Objective: Build out an excellent user feedback product

One of the components from last quarter - Surveys - has a lot more potential to stand on its own than other components. Thus, our second objective is to build out surveys into a great user feedback product.

This involves:
  - Having more options for survey types: NPS surveys, setting up user interviews, multiple choice questions
  - Building out an API version for the same, so users can freely integrate it into their product
  - Ensuring survey prompts don't destroy the end user experience, by say, showing a 100 prompts a day.
  - More flexibility and control over who to target for surveys

Commit message:

Q4 planning: Feature success (#6785)
Co-authored-by: Juraj Majerik <juro.majerik@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Li Yi Yu <li@posthog.com>

contents/handbook/small-teams/feature-success/objectives.mdx, after:

As always, reliability is the #1 unwritten goal: Making sure feature flags are reliable trumps every other objective.


### Objective: Get 5 reference customers for surveys

Last quarter, we built out surveys which has been very well received. This quarter, we're doubling down on surveys.

We will

- Launch pricing for surveys and make it its own standalone product.
- Build out features critical to surveys like templates, multiple questions and logic, better result visualizations, data export, and event targeting.

### Objective: Get reference customers for feature flags and experiments

Last quarter, we launched pricing for feature flags, and this has been reasonably successful.

This quarter, we want to validate we have product market fit, and gather 3 reference customers for feature flags, and 2 for experiments. At the same time, we want to more aggressively market feature flags to larger startups.

This involves building:

- Reminders for stale feature flags
- Feature flag environments
- Clarifying experiment results and some [ease of use improvements](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/labels/feature%2Fexperimentation)

---

We've decided to deprioritise Q3's main goal, even though it's not complete yet, because based on the overall company strategy, focusing on the above goals makes more sense, and we're waiting for the underlying technology - notebooks - to further mature, and gather data on how users use our components in notebooks.
