contents/docs/libraries/ios/index.mdx, before:

---
title: iOS
sidebarTitle: iOS
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
github: https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-ios
icon: ../../../images/docs/integrate/ios.svg
features:
    eventCapture: true
    userIdentification: true
    autoCapture: false
    sessionRecording: false
    featureFlags: true
    groupAnalytics: true
---

import IOSInstall from '../../integrate/_snippets/install-ios.mdx'
import IOSIdentify from './\_snippets/identify.mdx'
import IOSSendEvents from '../../integrate/send-events/_snippets/send-events-ios.mdx'

This library uses an internal queue to make calls fast and non-blocking. It also batches requests and flushes asynchronously, making it perfect to use in any part of your mobile app.

## Installation

<IOSInstall />

## Capturing events

<IOSSendEvents />

## Identify

> We highly recommend reading our section on [Identifying users](/docs/integrate/identifying-users) to better understand how to correctly use this method.

<IOSIdentify />

### Setting user properties via an event

To set [properties](/docs/data/user-properties) on your users via an event, you can leverage the event properties `userProperties` and `userPropertiesSetOnce`.

#### userProperties

**Example**

```swift
PostHogSDK.shared.capture("signed_up", properties: ["plan": "Pro++"], userProperties: ["user_property_name": "your_value"])
```

**Usage**

When capturing an event, you can pass a property called `$set` as an event property, and specify its value to be an object with properties to be set on the user that will be associated with the user who triggered the event.

#### userPropertiesSetOnce

**Example**

```swift
PostHogSDK.shared.capture("signed_up", properties: ["plan": "Pro++"], userPropertiesSetOnce: ["user_property_name": "your_value"] )
```

**Usage**

`userPropertiesSetOnce` works just like `userProperties`, except that it will **only set the property if the user doesn't already have that property set**.

## Flush

You can set the number of events in the configuration that should queue before flushing.
Setting this to `1` will send events immediately and will use more battery. This is set to `20` by default.

```swift
configuration.flushAt = 1
```

You can also manually flush the queue:

```swift
PostHogSDK.shared.capture("logged_out")
PostHogSDK.shared.flush()
```

## Reset

To reset the user's ID and anonymous ID, call `reset`. Usually you would do this right after the user logs out.

```swift
PostHogSDK.shared.reset()
```

## Group analytics

Group analytics allows you to associate the events for that person's session with a group (e.g. teams, organizations, etc.). Read the [Group Analytics](/docs/user-guides/group-analytics) guide for more information.

> **Note: ** This is a paid feature and is not available on the open-source or free cloud plan. Learn more [here](/pricing).

-   Associate the events for this session with a group

```swift
PostHogSDK.shared.group(type: "company", key: "company_id_in_your_db")
```

-   Associate the events for this session with a group AND update the properties of that group

```swift
PostHogSDK.shared.group(type: "company", key: "company_id_in_your_db", groupProperties: [
    "name": "ACME Corp"
])
```

The `name` is a special property which is used in the PostHog UI for the name of the Group. If you don't specify a `name` property, the group ID will be used instead.

## Feature Flags

import FeatureFlagsLibsIntro from "../_snippets/feature-flags-libs-intro.mdx"

<FeatureFlagsLibsIntro />

import IOSFeatureFlagsCode from '../../integrate/feature-flags-code/_snippets/feature-flags-code-ios.mdx'

<IOSFeatureFlagsCode />

## Experiments (A/B tests)

Since [experiments](/docs/experiments/manual) use feature flags, the code for running an experiment is very similar to the feature flags code:

```swift
if (PostHogSDK.shared.getFeatureFlag("experiment-feature-flag-key") as? String == "variant-name") {
    // do something
}
```

It's also possible to [run experiments without using feature flags](/docs/experiments/running-experiments-without-feature-flags).

## A note about IDFA (identifier for advertisers) collection in iOS 14

Starting with iOS 14, Apple will further restrict apps that track users. Any references to Apple's AdSupport framework, even in strings, [will trip](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-ios/issues/6) the App Store's static analysis.

Hence **starting with posthog-ios version 1.2.0** we have removed all references to Apple's AdSupport framework.

## All configuration options

The `configuration` element contains several other settings you can toggle:

```swift
/**
 * The number of queued events that the posthog client should flush at. Setting this to `1` will not queue
 * any events and will use more battery. `20` by default.
 */
configuration.flushAt = 20

/**
 * The amount of time to wait before each tick of the flush timer.
 * Smaller values will make events delivered in a more real-time manner and also use more battery.
 * A value smaller than 10 seconds will seriously degrade overall performance.
 * 30 seconds by default.
 */
configuration.flushIntervalSeconds = 30

/**
 * The maximum number of items to queue before starting to drop old ones. This should be a value greater
 * than zero, the behaviour is undefined otherwise. `1000` by default.
 */
configuration.maxQueueSize = 1000

/**
 * Whether the posthog client should automatically make a capture call for application lifecycle events,
 * such as "Application Installed", "Application Updated" and "Application Opened".
 */
configuration.captureApplicationLifecycleEvents = true

/**
 * Whether the posthog client should automatically make a screen call when a view controller is added to
 * a view hierarchy. Because the underlying implementation uses method swizzling, we recommend initializing
 * the posthog client as early as possible (before any screens are displayed), ideally during the
 * Application delegate's applicationDidFinishLaunching method.
 */
configuration.captureScreenViews = true
```

Commit message:

chore: mention apple supported platforms (#7762)

contents/docs/libraries/ios/index.mdx, after:

---
title: iOS
sidebarTitle: iOS
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
github: https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-ios
icon: ../../../images/docs/integrate/ios.svg
features:
    eventCapture: true
    userIdentification: true
    autoCapture: false
    sessionRecording: false
    featureFlags: true
    groupAnalytics: true
---

import IOSInstall from '../../integrate/_snippets/install-ios.mdx'
import IOSIdentify from './\_snippets/identify.mdx'
import IOSSendEvents from '../../integrate/send-events/_snippets/send-events-ios.mdx'

This library uses an internal queue to make calls fast and non-blocking. It also batches requests and flushes asynchronously, making it perfect to use in any part of your mobile app.

PostHog supports the Apple platforms: iOS, macOS, tvOS and watchOS.

## Installation

<IOSInstall />

## Capturing events

<IOSSendEvents />

## Identify

> We highly recommend reading our section on [Identifying users](/docs/integrate/identifying-users) to better understand how to correctly use this method.

<IOSIdentify />

### Setting user properties via an event

To set [properties](/docs/data/user-properties) on your users via an event, you can leverage the event properties `userProperties` and `userPropertiesSetOnce`.

#### userProperties

**Example**

```swift
PostHogSDK.shared.capture("signed_up", properties: ["plan": "Pro++"], userProperties: ["user_property_name": "your_value"])
```

**Usage**

When capturing an event, you can pass a property called `$set` as an event property, and specify its value to be an object with properties to be set on the user that will be associated with the user who triggered the event.

#### userPropertiesSetOnce

**Example**

```swift
PostHogSDK.shared.capture("signed_up", properties: ["plan": "Pro++"], userPropertiesSetOnce: ["user_property_name": "your_value"] )
```

**Usage**

`userPropertiesSetOnce` works just like `userProperties`, except that it will **only set the property if the user doesn't already have that property set**.

## Flush

You can set the number of events in the configuration that should queue before flushing.
Setting this to `1` will send events immediately and will use more battery. This is set to `20` by default.

```swift
configuration.flushAt = 1
```

You can also manually flush the queue:

```swift
PostHogSDK.shared.capture("logged_out")
PostHogSDK.shared.flush()
```

## Reset

To reset the user's ID and anonymous ID, call `reset`. Usually you would do this right after the user logs out.

```swift
PostHogSDK.shared.reset()
```

## Group analytics

Group analytics allows you to associate the events for that person's session with a group (e.g. teams, organizations, etc.). Read the [Group Analytics](/docs/user-guides/group-analytics) guide for more information.

> **Note: ** This is a paid feature and is not available on the open-source or free cloud plan. Learn more [here](/pricing).

-   Associate the events for this session with a group

```swift
PostHogSDK.shared.group(type: "company", key: "company_id_in_your_db")
```

-   Associate the events for this session with a group AND update the properties of that group

```swift
PostHogSDK.shared.group(type: "company", key: "company_id_in_your_db", groupProperties: [
    "name": "ACME Corp"
])
```

The `name` is a special property which is used in the PostHog UI for the name of the Group. If you don't specify a `name` property, the group ID will be used instead.

## Feature Flags

import FeatureFlagsLibsIntro from "../_snippets/feature-flags-libs-intro.mdx"

<FeatureFlagsLibsIntro />

import IOSFeatureFlagsCode from '../../integrate/feature-flags-code/_snippets/feature-flags-code-ios.mdx'

<IOSFeatureFlagsCode />

## Experiments (A/B tests)

Since [experiments](/docs/experiments/manual) use feature flags, the code for running an experiment is very similar to the feature flags code:

```swift
if (PostHogSDK.shared.getFeatureFlag("experiment-feature-flag-key") as? String == "variant-name") {
    // do something
}
```

It's also possible to [run experiments without using feature flags](/docs/experiments/running-experiments-without-feature-flags).

## A note about IDFA (identifier for advertisers) collection in iOS 14

Starting with iOS 14, Apple will further restrict apps that track users. Any references to Apple's AdSupport framework, even in strings, [will trip](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-ios/issues/6) the App Store's static analysis.

Hence **starting with posthog-ios version 1.2.0** we have removed all references to Apple's AdSupport framework.

## All configuration options

The `configuration` element contains several other settings you can toggle:

```swift
/**
 * The number of queued events that the posthog client should flush at. Setting this to `1` will not queue
 * any events and will use more battery. `20` by default.
 */
configuration.flushAt = 20

/**
 * The amount of time to wait before each tick of the flush timer.
 * Smaller values will make events delivered in a more real-time manner and also use more battery.
 * A value smaller than 10 seconds will seriously degrade overall performance.
 * 30 seconds by default.
 */
configuration.flushIntervalSeconds = 30

/**
 * The maximum number of items to queue before starting to drop old ones. This should be a value greater
 * than zero, the behaviour is undefined otherwise. `1000` by default.
 */
configuration.maxQueueSize = 1000

/**
 * Whether the posthog client should automatically make a capture call for application lifecycle events,
 * such as "Application Installed", "Application Updated" and "Application Opened".
 */
configuration.captureApplicationLifecycleEvents = true

/**
 * Whether the posthog client should automatically make a screen call when a view controller is added to
 * a view hierarchy. Because the underlying implementation uses method swizzling, we recommend initializing
 * the posthog client as early as possible (before any screens are displayed), ideally during the
 * Application delegate's applicationDidFinishLaunching method.
 */
configuration.captureScreenViews = true
```
