contents/docs/libraries/flutter/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Flutter
sidebarTitle: Flutter
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
github: https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-flutter
icon: ../../../images/docs/integrate/flutter.svg
features:
    eventCapture: true
    userIdentification: true
    autoCapture: false
    sessionRecording: false
    featureFlags: true
    groupAnalytics: true
---

import FlutterIdentify from './\_snippets/identify.mdx'

This is an optional library you can install if you're working with Flutter. It uses an internal queue to make calls fast and non-blocking. It also batches requests and flushes asynchronously, making it perfect to use in any part of your mobile app.

PostHog supports the iOS, macOS, Android and Web platforms.

## Installation

import FlutterInstall from '../../integrate/_snippets/install-flutter.mdx'

<FlutterInstall />

## Usage

To use this, add `posthog_flutter` as a [dependency in your pubspec.yaml file](https://pub.dev/packages/posthog_flutter/install).

### Example

```dart
import 'package:flutter/material.dart';
import 'package:posthog_flutter/posthog_flutter.dart';

void main() => runApp(MyApp());

class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MaterialApp(
      navigatorObservers: [
        // The PosthogObserver records screen views automatically
        PosthogObserver(),
      ],
      home: Scaffold(
        appBar: AppBar(
          title: Text('PostHog example app'),
        ),
        body: Center(
          child: FlatButton(
            child: Text('TRACK ACTION WITH PostHog'),
            onPressed: () async {
              await Posthog().capture(
                eventName: 'ButtonClicked',
                properties: {
                  'foo': 'bar',
                  'number': 1337,
                  'clicked': true,
                },
              );
            },
          ),
        ),
      )
    );
  }
}
```

## Capturing events

import FlutterSendEvents from '../../integrate/send-events/_snippets/send-events-flutter.mdx'

<FlutterSendEvents />

## Identify

> We highly recommend reading our section on [Identifying users](/docs/integrate/identifying-users) to better understand how to correctly use this method.

<FlutterIdentify />

## Group analytics

Group analytics allows you to associate the events for that person's session with a group (e.g. teams, organizations, etc.). Read the [Group Analytics](/docs/user-guides/group-analytics) guide for more information.

> **Note: ** This is a paid feature and is not available on the open-source or free cloud plan. Learn more [here](/pricing).

-   Associate the events for this session with a group

```dart
await Posthog().group(groupType: "company", groupKey: "company_id_in_your_db");
```

-   Associate the events for this session with a group AND update the properties of that group

```swift
await Posthog().group(
  groupType: "company", 
  groupKey: "company_id_in_your_db", 
  groupProperties: {
    "name": "ACME Corp"
});
```

The `name` is a special property which is used in the PostHog UI for the name of the Group. If you don't specify a `name` property, the group ID will be used instead.

## Feature Flags

import FeatureFlagsLibsIntro from "../_snippets/feature-flags-libs-intro.mdx"

<FeatureFlagsLibsIntro />

import FlutterFeatureFlagsCode from '../../integrate/feature-flags-code/_snippets/feature-flags-code-flutter.mdx'

<FlutterFeatureFlagsCode />

## Issues

Please file any issues, bugs, or feature requests in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/posthog/posthog-flutter/issues/new).

## Contributing

If you wish to contribute a change to this repo, please send a [Pull Request](https://github.com/posthog/posthog-flutter/pulls).

Commit message:

chore: add session recording section on flutter docs

contents/docs/libraries/flutter/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Flutter
sidebarTitle: Flutter
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
github: https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-flutter
icon: ../../../images/docs/integrate/flutter.svg
features:
    eventCapture: true
    userIdentification: true
    autoCapture: false
    sessionRecording: false
    featureFlags: true
    groupAnalytics: true
---

import FlutterIdentify from './\_snippets/identify.mdx'

This is an optional library you can install if you're working with Flutter. It uses an internal queue to make calls fast and non-blocking. It also batches requests and flushes asynchronously, making it perfect to use in any part of your mobile app.

PostHog supports the iOS, macOS, Android and Web platforms.

## Installation

import FlutterInstall from '../../integrate/_snippets/install-flutter.mdx'

<FlutterInstall />

## Usage

### Example

```dart
import 'package:flutter/material.dart';
import 'package:posthog_flutter/posthog_flutter.dart';

void main() => runApp(MyApp());

class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MaterialApp(
      navigatorObservers: [
        // The PosthogObserver records screen views automatically
        PosthogObserver(),
      ],
      home: Scaffold(
        appBar: AppBar(
          title: Text('PostHog example app'),
        ),
        body: Center(
          child: FlatButton(
            child: Text('TRACK ACTION WITH PostHog'),
            onPressed: () async {
              await Posthog().capture(
                eventName: 'ButtonClicked',
                properties: {
                  'foo': 'bar',
                  'number': 1337,
                  'clicked': true,
                },
              );
            },
          ),
        ),
      )
    );
  }
}
```

## Capturing events

import FlutterSendEvents from '../../integrate/send-events/_snippets/send-events-flutter.mdx'

<FlutterSendEvents />

## Identify

> We highly recommend reading our section on [Identifying users](/docs/integrate/identifying-users) to better understand how to correctly use this method.

<FlutterIdentify />

## Group analytics

Group analytics allows you to associate the events for that person's session with a group (e.g. teams, organizations, etc.). Read the [Group Analytics](/docs/user-guides/group-analytics) guide for more information.

> **Note: ** This is a paid feature and is not available on the open-source or free cloud plan. Learn more [here](/pricing).

-   Associate the events for this session with a group

```dart
await Posthog().group(groupType: "company", groupKey: "company_id_in_your_db");
```

-   Associate the events for this session with a group AND update the properties of that group

```swift
await Posthog().group(
  groupType: "company", 
  groupKey: "company_id_in_your_db", 
  groupProperties: {
    "name": "ACME Corp"
});
```

The `name` is a special property which is used in the PostHog UI for the name of the Group. If you don't specify a `name` property, the group ID will be used instead.

## Feature Flags

import FeatureFlagsLibsIntro from "../_snippets/feature-flags-libs-intro.mdx"

<FeatureFlagsLibsIntro />

import FlutterFeatureFlagsCode from '../../integrate/feature-flags-code/_snippets/feature-flags-code-flutter.mdx'

<FlutterFeatureFlagsCode />

## Session replay

> **Note: ** Session replay is only supported on the [Flutter Web](https://flutter.dev/multi-platform/web) environment.

To set up [session replay](/docs/session-replay) in your project, all you need to do is install the Flutter SDK and enable "Record user sessions" in [your project settings](https://us.posthog.com/settings/project-replay).

## Issues

Please file any issues, bugs, or feature requests in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/posthog/posthog-flutter/issues/new).

## Contributing

If you wish to contribute a change to this repo, please send a [Pull Request](https://github.com/posthog/posthog-flutter/pulls).
